go three two one
Lex handsome as ever thank you well
dressed always feel like a slob when I'm
around you do you dressed like that in
real life or only when you do podcasts
yeah so I have two outfits this and
black shirt and jeans it's a slick
outfit there's nothing nothing more
classic than a dark suit with a white
shirt and a black tie is that a black
tyres at a dark blue black tie black tie
black suit black tie it's armored
yes makes me feel like focuses the mind
mmm professional yeah I'm taking this
seriously yes yes yes like you're you're
fucking for real man yeah I know what's
and shit yeah I got notes and shit but
but given the suit like I like to get
like dirty like I like to work in a car
or whatever like yeah I don't want to I
like I'd love to get in a fight in this
this isn't like me trying to protect
myself from the from the messiness of
the real world I understand this is just
looks good just makes you feel is it um
flexible like you know they make clothes
they're flex yeah you can move in at you
move in it oh nice and I can I mean you
showed me how you can choke me last time
with the tie did you get a breakaway tie
no I didn't but you know I kind of let
you have that one because I think I can
defend it pretty long well you're
probably very good at defending jokes
yeah no no front would like with the tie
I don't have a system yet I'll have to
talk to Jon Danaher they develop a tie
all you have to do man is just take the
back of the tie cut it put a little
piece of velcro on each end you got the
same time that's nap no but I think you
going under the tie to try to start to
choke mm-hmm actually I mean you're
making yourself fall in there but like
maybe ten arm bar or something like that
like I think they're silly
don't be so much well they listen if
someone grabs ahold of your collar
that's the same thing the Ezequiel
chokes are deadly yeah but it's not over
yeah if you sink it in mm-hm but that's
so collars are a real problem right in
jiu-jitsu yeah they're a real problem if
someone gets deep on your collar like a
nun with a suit it starts doing this man
your
not good not good collars are not good
if you go deep if you get in deep yeah
yeah well the problem with that is it's
a handle it's worse than a collar cuz
I'll get underneath that knot and I'll
grab a hold up bitch and then it's all
just twisting yeah but it's you have to
you're right yeah I would have to get it
I'd have to get it and you also they I
have to hold on to this part because it
can loosen naturally unless you're
really good at like because it loosens
doesn't yeah it loosens naturally this
is a system to this I think you don't
think I try to choke people it ties on
as friends yeah I'm let me grab a hold
that tie real quick what happens if I do
this yeah no no not jiu-jitsu people and
also it's probably a joke yeah yeah I
was fighting for my life I think it'd be
different
sure you're a tough guy you are actually
trained martial artists I mean I'm not
saying it would be easy to grab your tie
and choke you to death what I'm saying
is it's one more area of vulnerability
that doesn't need to exist but see I'm
disagreeing with you and saying like if
I was gonna fight to the death I would
wear this suit okay cuz that would look
good let me tell you something about CIA
agents and Secret Service guys they were
breakaway ties that's because they're
not good martial artists oh that's not
true there's a lot of those guys are
savages are they a fuck yeah man belt no
black belts man if you're a fucking if
you're a Secret Service guy you're
supposed to be protecting the president
I guarantee you a bunch of those guys
are savages I think they're smart enough
to use guns that - yeah but they don't
you know if they have to wear a tie a
lot of people like to wear breakaway
ties is that a fact
mm-hmm I might be making this up right I
think that's it bro no I know but it's
it's a little bro fact but only like 10%
I think let's Google breakaway ties for
self defense because dude look I'm
definitely a dummy right okay I think
about the stuff too much but when I was
driving limos
I always felt super vulnerable when I
underwear that tie it looks good though
my one of my actually my first album my
first real album that I ever did for
Warner Brothers was in 1999 and I wore
exactly that outfit
or a black suit with a white shirt and a
white and a black tie and it looked dope
that's called I'm gonna be dead someday
breakaway talk I stand up like a mm-hmm
look at that breakaway tie Sun Lowepro
breakaway tie whoa that's what I'm
wearing let me explain you some come get
some most people when they're vulnerable
like say I'm afraid I'm gonna be picked
on by bullies and had learned a martial
art how to defend myself yes you when
you felt vulnerable wearing a tie
decided not to wear a tie as opposed to
learn how to defend yourself while
wearing a tie there must be a system I
guarantee it or you could you could say
that um you could defend yourself you
had a dog collar around your neck too
but I wouldn't recommend I would
recommend smite I took my dog out once I
had a pitbull and he bit my cat he
grabbed holding my cat it's a terrible
story I had a crazy dog when one of my
dogs was a dog that I had gotten it was
I was young and irresponsible in my 20s
and I gotten this dog that was bred from
a pig hunting dog in Hawaii and those
dogs are hyper animal aggressive they're
great with people he was great with
people he loved people but everything
that moved
he was like locked in on he would spend
his days in my yard chasing lizards his
thing was to jump up on the wall a house
and try to snatch lizards it was like a
video game for him and my friend Eddie
was terrified of this dog hey Bravo
yeah and so Eddie would come over the
house and Frank would just decide that
he runs shit when Eddie's around because
Eddie was so scared of him he'd blame em
I think I'm gonna kill this cat so he
just tried to kill my cat and I got
ahold of him in time and I got my hand
into his collar and I choked unconscious
head like that yeah just behind yeah I'm
from behind I just dug my hand under his
collar and I twist it and I put him to
sleep he went right out it's crazy
yeah it works works on dogs yeah maybe
from the boughs and thing for the back I
was thinking from the front anywhere you
can grab a dog collar if you get your
hand in there if you're strong enough
and you have good technique you know how
to go knee on belly and then you twist
it you can put a dog to sleep well
you changing my mind
see ya but I don't know I mean look
obviously you're gonna be aware of that
and you're gonna defend and you but it's
a it's an area of vulnerability right
nineteen ninety and pull up I'm gonna be
dead someday that the cover of that
because I'm literally dressed exactly
like you on the cover or when actually
doing the show I know I never warrant
doing a show I think I just wore it for
the cover almost ironically no I kind of
like the way it looked
there's you know there it is BAM it's
hard to tell there because it's that
one's orange and the other one's hot
pink but I think the the shirt collars a
little more open like like you don't
give a damn well that was a long day and
it was a long photoshoot we were
drinking yeah it was a lot of legit
there was a lot of stuff going on there
but it was just to just I just I like
that look it's good look by the way
congratulations in the ten years oh
thank you very much I don't think you've
celebrated probably all I see is on
Jamie's Instagram like a naked picture
of Burke 10-year picture yeah we
probably should do something it was
December was officially 10 years so
those two months ago kind of Chef some
sort of a party or something I know you
don't like to talk about it think about
it but you've inspired millions very
nice it's very it's a very nice little
side effect but it's a it's a weird gig
man you know and it's it's a it's a gig
that became what it is slowly without me
understanding what was happening while
it was happening which makes it weirder
and weirder
and with it has come increasingly
stronger levels of responsibility to
where you know now I have to actually
vet guests and think about what they're
saying whereas before I would have
someone on it they're crazy I let that
crazy motherfucker on let's hear what he
has to say and people would say a lot of
crazy shit and then they would say oh
you know you didn't push back or you had
this person on and they said something
you're responsible and I had no idea
what they were gonna say there's a lot
of people that have said some pretty
outrageous things I had no idea that
we're gonna say yeah I saw the like I
started one of the things you described
me to do is to start
Podcast on artificial intelligence and I
have Jack Dorsey as a guest coming up
uh-huh
and that's a good example of somebody
you got like an insane amount of
pushback yes because they were mad that
I didn't talk to him about censorship
but my take on it was it was certainly
irresponsible on my part the first
podcast because my take on it was I just
want to see what it's like to be a guy
that starts this thing and it becomes
probably one of the most important
conversation tools the world's ever
known
and also along the way becomes you know
it becomes something we like right now
it's weird like Twitter now is just this
it's just 50% hot dumpster fire you know
it's amazing inspiring snow like you get
you can always find the dumpster fire in
all kinds of conversations yes and the
confusing thing to me about your
conversation with Jack which I didn't
look at the internet before I listened
to it and I enjoyed it
I was interesting I learned a lot from
your first conversation Jack and like
and then I looked at the internet that
told me I'm supposed to hate that
conversation and what I'm confused about
is why why there's such like why is
there such hatred thrown towards I also
talked to the head of the YouTube a head
of the YouTube algorithm search and
discovery a lot of hate towards you to
you know how to hate towards Twitter a
lot towards Facebook and deservedly so
there's some challenges and so on but
they're doing like an incredible service
and the algorithm they're trying to
develop and control is really hard to
develop and control yes sure so the push
back that people get it's almost like
they're ignored they're they're taking
specific anecdotal pieces of evidence or
look this person said this and it's it's
not that problematic in our eyes but a
day somehow got censored from the
platform removed from the plan and they
don't look at the bigger picture of how
challenging the entirety of it is and
how incredible first of all the
incredible the platform is to have a
conversation like a global conversation
like this and
hard it is to do to achieve the goal of
having it sounds like cheesy but having
like a healthy conversation a health the
discourse because you want an algorithm
and a platform that removes the assholes
from the scene because it's a really
difficult challenge because you want
this is one person was really loud
screaming the room light comes to the
party you have a cool party a bunch of
cool people some communists some
right-wingers whatever it doesn't matter
they can all disagree but they're not
assholes there to have a like
interesting debate conversation so on
and then there's somebody that comes
with like a and just starts screaming
like one like slogan or something like
that or is trying is trolling is
completely sort of non genuine in their
way of communication they're destroying
the nature of the conversation and then
of course that person if they get you
know the bodyguards come in and say can
you please leave the party sir then they
get extremely that's exactly the kind of
personality gets extremely upset mm-hmm
and though sometimes they almost look
for that so what you're supposed to do
as a jack doors is a as a leader of that
kind of platform it's a very good
question and I really think that there's
no real answer and it's one of the
reasons why it's so frustrating you know
if you just let people say whatever they
want whenever they want to there's gonna
be a lot of people that get turned off
to that kind of a platform because
you're gonna have a lot of people
yelling out racial slurs ethnic slurs
gender slurs homophobic slurs there's
going to be a bunch of people that are
trolling there's going to be a bunch of
people that just say things to rile
people up and that's all they do there's
gonna be a bunch of people that just
want a shit stirrer and they want a Docs
people anyway so you got it then you
have to set parameters like what are the
parameters don't you can't Docs people
you can't don't say racial slurs don't
say ethnic slurs it's you're managing at
scale and you're managing an insane
amount of people but then there's
legitimate criticism that they lean
towards progressive people and liberal
people and they they have woke Paul
tics like for instance you can get
banned from Twitter for life if you dead
name someone Solex if you became a
female and you change your name to Ally
and I just said fuck you man you're Lex
banned for life that's what is it dead
naming that's dead naming like if you
wanted to call Caitlyn Jenner if you
want to call Caitlyn Jenner Bruce on
Twitter you would get dead named there
or you would be dead naming her and you
would get banned for life a woman named
Megan Murphy who is a turf do you know
the turf is what do you think I don't
know what a tariff is I'm sure you don't
you two balls deep in science yeah turf
is trans exclusionary radical feminists
so trans exclusionary I don't have such
a hard time with that word exclusionary
right exclusion why does it sound wrong
exclusionary sounds wrong so what does
it mean to be exclusionary to trans what
they she did okay turfs do not want
trans people to be to have a say in
women's issues I see they think that
they are a different thing that there's
women and women's issues and these
feminists that have been female their
whole life dealing with women's issues
do not want trans people coming in and
in many cases what you find is that
trans people come in and then the
conversation changes and it becomes
about trans issues and they want these
conversations to be able in in feminist
movements it's complicated right
she got banned from Twitter for life for
saying a man is never a woman they made
her take the tweet down so she took a
screenshot of it took it down and then
put this screenshot back up and then
they banned it for life should she get
been no no she shouldn't because
biologically she's correct if there's an
argument there if there's an argument a
scientific argument a man is never a
woman but can a man identify as a woman
and should you respect him her then and
treat them as a woman yes so yes so the
question is whether I mean I I'm not too
deep into thinking about these specific
issues but the question is whether you
should get banned for being an asshole
you should
banned for being for lying because I
think lying is okay the truth whatever
there's a lot of people lie on Twitter
yeah I in sort of or insult you can
insult people on Twitter as long as
you're not specific about their gender
see that the insult thing that's where
it gets
it's the party thing you have that
asshole douchebag whatever term you want
to use they show up to the party and
then if a person shows up to the party
and a lot of people leave because
they're annoying or whatever yes that
should be like we should do something to
discourage that behavior that's a good
point however let's let's paint a
different picture of a party let's have
a party where everyone says my pronouns
are they them and zis ER and ja vu and
then and then you come in you come on
bro you're a guy and like no no I'm of a
fucking cisgendered heteronormative
piece of shit and then they want to kick
you out of the party yeah now all you're
saying is you're a guy band both of them
no way man the been the person who's not
open-minded or respectful for that you
know well don't ban people here's the
please no no no no not that yeah so of
course it's been well documented by but
by people now the reason we probably
have the current president is yeah the
people on the left of very also rude and
disrespectful it's a small percentage of
the people no very small this is part of
the really slow on Twitter that they are
on Twitter but it's also the small
percentage when you it's so hard to have
a group and call that group the left
because the variables are so extreme
there's so many different people that
follow politics or that that espouse to
certain belief systems that recognize
themselves as left funny enough you're
probably on the left yes I'm very much
on the left yeah but I don't considered
to be on the left because I'm a cage
fighting commentator um you know
American flag behind yeah I'm very bro
ish I hunt I bow hunt which is even more
bro ish right and I am unabashedly
masculine and a man and a comedian yeah
some
comedian and I said and I make fun of
everything including sacred cows like
gender homosexuality heterosexuality my
own kids my wife my mom everybody I make
fun of everybody and if you take that
stuff out of context and just publish a
bunch of it it makes you look like a
moron or it makes you look very an
asshole that's you know what what is the
left right what is the left in my mind
the left when I was a child I always
thought of the left because I grew up my
parents were hippies all right my my
stepdad was an architect and before that
he was a computer programmer he has long
hair until I was I think I was 20 years
old when he cut his hair I mean long
like down to his ass like a Native
American nice and he you know they
always he smoked pot when I was little I
mean he I was always around hippies I
lived in San Francisco from the time I
was seven till I was 11 and I was always
and and my family was very left-wing
they were always Pro gay marriage they
were print pro-gay rights Pro racial
equality Pro just name it man Pro
welfare Pro you know just the idea was
open-mindedness education all these
things are good and this is when war was
bad and you know there was a lot of you
know there's a lot of things that maybe
they had that they had they had like
very strong beliefs on that maybe they
weren't entirely nuanced on as well when
you find that about people on the left
as much as you find that about people on
the right but it's the radicals on both
sides being there's nothing wrong with
being conservative right there's nothing
wrong with valuing hard work there's
nothing wrong with someone whose values
of fiscal frugality or someone who is
you know you you have a conservative
view on economics or on social policies
you know and you you want less
government there's nothing wrong with
those things either that's when you get
extreme like yeah the guest was amazing
guess you had recently
they converted a bunch of folks from the
KKK Gerald Davis yeah Wow
this is him right here this is a CD he's
amazing he's an incredible human man but
that kind of thinking I wish you saw
more of that yeah it's sort of like not
even if you're on the left to be to talk
to people on the brightest instead of
just shut him out that's the problem
with this idea of kicking people out of
a party you kick people out of the party
guys like Darrell Davis never get to
convert them there's been people from
Twitter that have been converted you
know Megan Phelps is a famous one she
was a part of the Westboro Baptist
Church her grandfather was Fred Phelps
that fucking famous crazy asshole who
was like super rude like who you know
would make them take those signs that
say God hates fags and and literally go
to soldiers funerals and say that
soldiers died because God is angry that
people are homosexual so Megan was
completely entrenched in this toxic
ideology would are allowed her to escape
that yes she met her husband on Twitter
from arguing a thing back and forth and
now she's out and now now and you if you
talk to her you would never believe it
and man and not that long ago either not
that long ago she was in that church
like six years ago it's kind of
incredible that you can submit Gro that
mindset so no matter
I mean it's inspiring that you can hold
him on instead of hatred and no yes
escape it well she was indoctrinated
into it from the time she was a child
and you know for her it was the only
life she knew right her family is in
that and for her she just just I mean by
whatever for whatever grace of the the
grand universe plan she had enough
open-mindedness to take into
consideration some of these other things
that people were saying that we have a
problem today with canceled culture it's
a real problem is they you just want to
write people off well those people still
exist it's basically a cultural form of
euthanasia you just want to go out and
whack everyone that doesn't agree with
you but if you if you do that you
whether it's eugenics or whatever
whatever you want to call it you just
eliminate everyone who's not the way
that you like culturally eliminate them
take them out of the conversation they
still
exist yeah they still exist so what
happens and well then they're angry
they're angry they left out of the
conversation and and they don't grow and
then you've written them off as a human
being you said they're they're a hundred
percent bad now if you had a spectrum of
people in this world one hundred percent
bad and a hundred percent good I mean
there are some beautiful people that
really are a hundred percent like my
friend Justin Ren who runs fight for the
Forgotten charity he's about as close to
a hundred percent good as you can get I
mean this beautiful person goes to the
Congo and makes wells for the pygmies
and gets malaria it's now his crate
he's got some crazy parasite now that
they don't even know what it is they
can't recognize it he's been suffering
for eight months now I think that's
about as good as you can get right and
then there's people you know you could
it's a gray area when you start to drift
away from the good like I have the same
thing in my like that's the focus I have
in the academic setting of science
there's and that's that's the
inspiration in your podcast that you you
gave me is to talk outside the people
that are sort of conventionally accepted
by the scientific community like a
little bit on the fringes yeah and the
quote-unquote fringes so you have the
same thing in machine learning and
artificial intelligence there's people
that are working on specific it's called
deep learning these learning
methodologies that are accepted you know
there's conferences and we all kind of
accept the problems we're working on and
there's people a little bit on the
fringes hmm there's people in
neuroscience actually anybody thinking
about working on what's called
artificial general intelligence is
already on the fringes you know if you
even raise the question okay so how do
we build human level intelligence that's
a little bit of a taboo subject the
consciousness is called the c-word for a
while conscious
really yeah well it's scientists oh I
know I understand yeah but explain it to
me like what what's the aversion
what does everyone worried about does
well no it's what are they worried about
it's this culture of rolling your eyes
the same the same way you might roll
your eyes if somebody tells you the
earth is flat mmm they sort of put all
other things in that category as well
it's like well that's
okay whatever that's we so in case of
consciousness we really don't understand
very much at all what consciousnesses
what the what the objective experience
the fact that it feels like something to
take in the world that it's not just raw
sensory information being processed
actually feels like to touch something
to taste something to see something it's
like incredible David Chalmers calls it
the hard problem of consciousness why do
we feel it okay but we don't have
scientific physics engineering methods
of studying consciousness so it
immediately gets put into this bin that
it's not a an okay thing like gear a
little bit of crazy off the reservation
I think somebody was Darryl Sannes slur
I never even thought of that I didn't
think of what that meant yeah so they
already put in this bin of you're not a
legitimate researcher and the same kind
of you know and I think we're now in a
in a culture which is great you know
Eric Weinstein is good at this I'm
hoping to be good at this
you're good at this at allowing those
people on the fringes in and saying what
are your ideas exploring those yeah of
course you have a greater and greater
platform to where there is a line you
don't want too far in the fringes yeah
that's something I'm aware of now that I
wasn't aware of say like three or four
years ago and I used to have a lot of
those I've had some people on that it
would never have on again you know and
and then I've had some people on that
I've been criticized for having them on
I'm like okay I see why you are upset
but I think there's value in having
conversations with people that are on
the fringes there's people that are bad
faith actors right they act in bad faith
those are the ones you have to be
careful of and sometimes you don't know
who they are until you get to know them
yeah and then you've already kind of
opened the door like for some people for
like the democratic the legitimate
seven-year-old plus Democratic Party
Tulsi Gabbard is on the fringe yeah
right but I think you having her on as
great is exploring you know she's one of
the young minds exploring sort of the
role of the United States in the foreign
policy in the world militarily in terms
of trade and so on so she's a excellent
mine
I don't think is on the fringe and
saying I don't think she's on the fringe
or any Sanders for many people still is
on the fringe yeah and uh I think he
gets misrepresented though yeah for sure
one of the things that was tremendously
beneficial for me is to sit down with
him for hours and have a conversation
yeah and you go oh you're a real person
you're not this wacky guy yelling about
billionaires well you know when you get
these 90 second sound bites and these
debates you don't get a chance to know
who someone is yeah so I used to listen
to this I I listened to a lot of radio
on the left and the right to try to get
like taken what what people are thinking
about used to listen to this program I
think is called that tom hartman program
he's like a major lefty but he had this
segment called brunch with Bernie and he
would invite Bernie Sanders like every
Friday something like that and just sort
of the intellectual honesty and
curiosity that Bernie exhibited was just
fascinating sort of like as opposed to
being a political thing that just
repeats the same message over and over
which actually what it kind of sounds
like when you listen to him now publicly
he is actually a thinking individual and
somebody who's open to changing his mind
but within that has just completely been
consistent what people are terrified of
is that he's going to raise taxes on
successful people and ruin business yeah
that's what people are worried about
that in doing that it will crash the
economy yes I don't know if they're
right I don't even know if they're so
first of all the people are using the
word socialist see I'm saying he's a
socialist do you really want socialism
America is a great country because of
our capitalist kind of thing from my
perspective I think we already have a
huge number of socialists well he's a
democratic socialist democratic so it's
a different perspective he just values
workers the ideas he wants people to
earn a living wage he wants people to
not be indebted with a tremendous amount
of student loan debt when you're just 21
years old and getting out of college he
thinks it's insane and I agree with them
he doesn't want people to be burdened in
this insane way if you ever get
and I agree with them let's improve the
healthcare system I think as a community
if we're looking at the United States as
a community one of the things that you
know look it's great to support business
it's great to have a strong economy it's
great to give business the confidence to
take chances and a lot of people think
Donald Trump does that it's also great
to take care of our own and I don't
think we do that enough I don't think we
take care of our own enough in terms of
we have the same problems in the same
inner cities that we've had for a decade
after decade after decade and there's no
significant attempt to change that but
meanwhile we do these nation-building
projects and other countries and we have
the interventionist foreign policy where
we go in and invade these countries and
try to prop up new new governments and
try to support them and we spend insane
amounts of money doing that and along
the while we don't do anything to our
inner cities that are the exact same
fucked up places that they were in the
70s and in the 60s do you know do you
know Michael Wood jr. is know he was on
the podcast a couple times and he used
to be a police officer in Baltimore yes
I know him okay so I listen to that
podcast I'm just horrible with names
okay his his experience was first of all
just he found a piece of paper that
showed like a crime docket from the
1970s all the stuff like drugs crime
robbery it was all the same issues in
the same neighborhoods that he was
patrolling in today and he was like holy
shit and he realized like oh this is a
quagmire and then he found out about the
laws that were in place from way back in
the day where you literally if you were
an african-american you couldn't buy a
home in certain areas they had what does
that term is it redlined is that what
the term is where they they designate
certain areas where they literally won't
sell homes to black people and he was
becoming aware of this shit as he was a
cop and you know in the beginning he was
all gung-ho he was like oh I'm a cop you
know I'm here to bust bad guys and do
the right thing and then
along the way he kind of recognized
you're dealing with systemic racism
redlining really yeah so yes so that
hasn't been addressed it's all about I
mean there's a million other things at
home education yeah all those things I
think Bernie Sanders when he talks about
those things he he seems like a guy who
really cares about education healthcare
and people that live in poverty yeah I
don't I don't know if he's gonna be able
to do anything I don't know that's the
main thing is like people say democratic
socialists and so on is gonna he's going
to make it
slight move into whatever direction he's
trying to advocate which in this case is
more investment into the infrastructure
and so on into our yeah at home but like
you know he's just one human being just
has to be a Congress that represents the
people and if there's anything I think
Congress is probably the most hated
entity in all the universe like it you
look at all the polls of what people
like and hate like like rats are above
the favorability ratings so Congress is
really the broken system but Bernie
won't be able to do much except take a
little sort of the role the President as
I see it is to one the terrifying one is
to start wars and so this it's a very
serious responsibility you have to take
and the second is to inspire the
population in terms of executive power
of enacting laws there's not much power
all you can all you can do is what our
current president is doing sort of
inspiring the on that in that case the
Republicans in Congress to sort of work
together to work on certain legislation
so you can inspire the Congress and you
can inspire the people but you don't
have actual direct power so bernie is
not going to turn america into a
socialist you know Haven he's going to
take a small step into maybe he probably
fixing focusing on one aspect like
health care or something like that like
President Obama did and tried to make a
little change and so so in that sense
people that are genuine and have ideas
like Andrew yang is another one
he has like I
number of ideas I know if you've seen
like he thinks all cops should be purple
belts and jujitsu I like it my go Andrew
yeah there's a million other ideas well
he's a genius I mean he's a brilliant
guy and he's an entrepreneur so he comes
at this stuff from a different angle
yeah and all he's open minded like I yes
I well I disagree with him on his
evaluation of the state of artificial
intelligence and automation in terms of
its capabilities and having an impact on
the economy you don't think it's gonna
be as much of a deal as he thinks it is
I am the timescale that he thinks it is
but I also want to be careful sort of
commenting on that because I think for
him it's a tool to describe the concerns
the suffering that people go through in
terms of in terms of losing their job
like the pain that people are feeling
throughout the country it's a it's like
a mechanism he uses to talk to people
about the future in that you know there
are people that are well off like the
different tech companies that should
also contribute to investing our
community I mean the specifics I want to
kind of sit back and relax a little bit
it's like when you watch a sci-fi movie
and the details are all really bad I
want to just mention or disbelieve or
whatever and enjoy the movie in the same
way the stuff he says about AI he's not
very knowledgeable body I in automation
so it's a little it touches me a little
bit the wrong way in turn we're not as
far along the the transformative effects
of artificial intelligence in terms of
replacing humans in trucking autonomous
vehicles something I know a couple
things about is not going to be as you
know I could speak relatively
confidently the the revolution in
autonomous vehicles would be more
gradual than
andrew is describing but that's okay
there's a million other ideas and ubi
nevertheless the universe of basic
income was some kind of support
structure that kind nevertheless could
be a very good idea for people that lose
their job for people to be mobile in
terms of going for one type of job to
another type of job so continually
learning through our life it's just that
artificial intelligence in this case I
don't think will be the enemy it be
there could be other things that are a
little bit sort of neighbors of
artificial intelligence which is sort of
the software world eating up some of the
mechanization of factors and so on you
know maybe maybe the the fact that you
know the kind of way that Tesla and Elon
Musk are approaching the design and
engineering of vehicles that are a
little bit more software eccentric will
change will sort of move some of the job
from Detroit Michigan in terms of cars
to the Silicon Valley unnecessary
location wise but sort of a different
type of person would need to be hired to
work on cars a little bit more software
engineering software centric versus the
sort of hardcore mechanical engineers
more sort of you know tradition called
car guys you know gals right yeah so
that there will be some job replacement
so on but it's not this artificial
intelligence trucks will completely
replace your job and in the case of
trucks you know that it's not there's a
lot of complicated aspects about the
impact of automation sort of trucking
jobs there's actually a lot of need for
jobs like there's not the truck that
that job there's already people leaving
that job sector it's a really difficult
job it doesn't pay as well as it should
it's really difficult to train people
and so on so the the impact that he
talks about in terms of AI is a little
bit of exaggerated but like I said a
million really good ideas he's
open-minded so the in terms of I think
the nice role of a president is to have
ideas like the purple ball one they
inspire people and inspire Congress to
soon implement some of those ideas and
be open minded and not take yourself
seriously enough to think the you know
all the right answers
Andrew yang Bernie is like that
although bernie is like 78 years old so
yeah he's getting up there yeah look at
president tulsi when he kicks the bucket
you know what I didn't know well yeah
that's so I think Hillary Clinton
endorsed Bernie and Tulsi God
for president reverse endorsement
accidentally yeah well yeah I say it's
just such a petty thing to say that no
one likes Bernie I come on Lady
this is you're in the twilight of your
life I think she's really aware of the
fact that if she says something like
that people are gonna like Bernie more
I think it's an endorsement I don't
think she has any idea of that
I think she's super insulated I don't I
don't think she I think she thinks that
she can actually hamstring him by saying
something like that and she doesn't
understand that it just makes people
realize that the things that they say
about her correct yeah the negative
credit really you gave her credit for
killing upstate
I was joking I don't think she did I
think somebody did it I don't know who
it was maybe some scientist character
maybe he's still alive it could be
doesn't any Bravo thanks man Eddie Bravo
thinks he's in like Dominican Republic
somewhere eating bananas and drinking
mai tais it's a conspiracy on a
conspiracy
yeah well Eddie's always like that he's
ready levels deep he plays for DHS when
it comes to conspiracy do you think that
Andrew yang is off but ultimately will
be correct in terms of the automation
timeline do you think that maybe he
doesn't know clearly as much as you know
about automation and artificial
intelligence but do you think that it's
possible that you know I think he's
looking at a time line I think he was
thinking within the next 10 years
millions and millions of jobs going to
be replaced do you think that it's more
like 20 years or 30 years it's still
something exact concern so the time line
of course nobody knows but I think the
time line is much the time skills is
more stretched out so 20-30 years and it
will continue they'll be there'll be
certain key revolutions and those
revolutions
it's a so it's an incorrect word to use
but they'll be stretched out over time I
think the autonomous vehicle revolution
is something to achieve a scale of
millions of vehicles that are fully
autonomously navigating our streets I
think is 20 30 years away mm-hmm and it
won't be like all of a sudden you'll be
gradual there'll be people like
the former Google self-driving car way
Moe company who's doing a lot of testing
now incredible engineer I visited them
for a day you'll be expending their
efforts slowly they're doing also way
more trucks autonomous trucking already
deploying them in Texas I think and then
of course Tesla whose this year gonna
proach a million vehicles and they're
trying to achieve full self-driving
capability but that's gonna be gradual I
just got a new update for the Tesla some
new self-driving update it costs four
grand and I was like what is it you know
and then but I think it was high and I
was looking at my phone when I was like
hmm okay let's do it and so I got this
update but I'm like what did I just pay
for and I'm not even I don't even know
if I'm gonna use it but I think it can
change I think it does everything I
think it changes lanes and yeah well
okay so I'm not exactly sure what the
update is but it's probably see if you
can find out Jamie so it's probably the
quote-unquote full self-driving you know
very important um the safety person I
guess I'm his podcast Tesla cannot drive
itself fully autonomously you have to
keep your eyes in the road oh I saw a
guy sleeping on the internet and he was
fun yeah well a car how cold I'll look
into it was on CNN it was someone filmed
the guy he was in his car passed out not
just one it's bit there's been a few
examples of that a people commuting on
the way to work so out cold so some are
for fun and fake but it's certainly a
real thing that you don't sleep we do
that with manual driven cars too I enjoy
driving home in my Tesla from the comi
store like 1 o'clock in the morning
hitting that autopilot and I keep my
hand on the wheel but it just it's an 11
keep your eyes on the road yes I'm not
looking at my phone or anything stupid
but it's just like oh do do you press
that that double button yeah just hot it
changes lanes oh it doesn't change lanes
it stays in the lane it does it can
change lanes but I think you have to
prompt it like if if you want to like it
there's an option for navigate on
autopilot like it'll like take you
everywhere you need to go but I think
you need to step in at certain points
yeah and you actually said now you can
it can change lanes without you
pressing that's what it is now yeah so
you can do it automatically and they're
doing hundreds of thousands I think
they're tracking the number of automated
lane change first of all incredible that
this is possible there's hundreds of
thousands of automated lane changes
without human initiation happening right
now on I mean to me is a sort of a
robotics person it's just incredibly
here it is from whole snack on Twitter
it says Tesla's new update lets the car
recognize traffic cones stop signs and
stop lines trash cans and stoplights at
their colors if you try to run a stop
sign under autopilot the car emergency
brakes and forces you to take over after
right wow you can't run stops on so this
isn't the out date you paid $4,000 for
that's already that's part of that but
I'm actually surprised to the force but
it says Tesla's new update what's the
time on this channel with the date
December 24th okay for a more recent so
this is this isn't the exact update the
the the paid $4,000 for I think this is
a general part of the full self-driving
which is four thousand dollars and just
to be clear again safety person it's not
like it detects traffic lights but it
doesn't stop at the traffic lights for
you and maybe in this case it does
emergency braking on the south side but
it's not not gonna no it's not is not
there you're not there don't trust it
it's not there it's in fact this you
know there's a lot of people including
myself think it's work quite a few years
away but it's also sort of also on the
podcast just like you got just to talk
to you all mosque meet him talk to him
in person
and realize that there's you know
there's people in this world they can
make the impossible happen you
interviewed him as well yeah twice yeah
tell me what was that experience like
for you so you know there was it's quite
incredible in the sense that he is a
legit engineer and designer which is
like a pleasure for me I've talked to a
few CEOs talked to Eric Schmidt just the
CEOs and they're a little bit more
business oriented Elon is really really
focused on the fundament like the first
principles - like the physics level
of the problems that are being solved
whether that's SpaceX with the
fundamentals of rocky reusable rockets
and and you know going into deep space
and colonizing Mars whether that's a
neuro-link for the getting to the core
the fundamentals of what it's like to
have a computer communicate with the
human brain and with Tesla on the
battery side sort of saying he he throw
away a lot of the conventional thinking
about what's required to build first of
all an appealing car electric car but
also one that's has a long range that's
something I don't know as much about but
they're on the AI side just I mean he
boldly said from scratch we can build
the system ourselves in a matter of
months now a couple of years that's able
to drive autonomously and most people
would laugh at that idea like the most
roboticist said no from the DARPA
challenges most of them know how hard
this problem is he said no no we're
going to we're not only gonna throw a
lidar which is this laser based sensor
we're gonna say cameras only and we're
gonna use deep learning machine learning
which is learning based system so it's a
system that learns from scratch and
we're going to teach it to drive from
eight cameras and so on so just talking
to somebody like that was the the the
not the fact that he thinks like that I
think it's just fun to talk to people
like that I don't meet them off and
let's say I don't know stop this
bullshit of thinking that this task is
impossible let's say why is it
impossible is it really impossible well
you find out when you start to think
about most problems from first
principles is that it's not actually
impossible and then you have to think
okay so how do we make it happen how do
we create an infrastructure that allows
you to learn from huge amounts of data
so one of the most revolutionary things
that Tesla is doing and hopefully other
car companies will be doing is the
over-the-air software updates just like
the update that you got the fact that
just like on your phone you can get
updates over time means you can have a
learning system a machine learning based
system they can learn and then deploy
the thing you learned over time and do
that weekly that sounds like maybe
but it's come nobody else is doing it
and it's completely revolutionary see
cars once you buy them they don't learn
most cars
Tessa learns that that's a huge thing
forget about it I thought about all the
stuff just the fact that you can update
the software I think there's a
revolutionary idea and then they're also
doing everything else from scratch this
is this first principles type of
thinking the hardware so the the
hardware in your car I don't know when
you got the Tesla but it should be
hardware version too but that Hardware
performs what's called inference so it's
already trained it's already learned
it's thing and it's just taking in the
raw sensory input and making decisions
okay they built that hardware themselves
from scratch again ballsy move
now they're building what they're
calling again he's such a troll but
they're calling dojo is the the name of
the the specialized hardware for
training than you're on those for
training the models what training is
it's the learning side of it so they're
building their own like supercomputer at
Google has a TPU to improve the training
tape you was this temporal tensor
processing unit it's the same thing as
the more general nvidia has graphics
processing unit GPUs that all the Nerds
all the people like me have been using
on for machine learning to train you all
networks it's what most also gamers use
the video games right but they have they
have this nice quality that you can
train huge neural networks on them okay
TPU is as a specialized hardware for
training neural networks GPUs allow you
to play video games and train your own
networks TPU is clean some stuff up to
make it more efficient energy efficient
more efficient for the kinds of
computation y'all know works need Google
has them a bunch of other companies have
them you know most most car companies
would be like okay let me partner with
somebody else to you from google to use
their TP use or use invidious GPUs
Tesla's building you from scratch
so that kind of from scratch thinking is
is incredible and
the other two things I really listen
where the like about Musk is the hard
work we live in a culture like so many
people like I often don't sleep I do
crazy shit in terms of just focus stay
up night sometimes and I often people
recommend to me the you know balance is
really important and taking a break is
important you know that you rejuvenate
yourself you return to with fresh ideas
all those things are true sleep is
important yet the people on the podcast
tell you how important sleep is but what
most people don't don't advise me is
hard work is more important passion is
more important than all of those things
like that should come first
and then sleep empowers it rest and
powers at rejuvenation powers especially
in engineering disciplines hard work is
everything and he's sort of
unapologetically about that it's not
like a come come to us come work with us
it'll be a friendly environment with
free snacks it's like you're gonna work
the hardest you've ever worked on
whether you agree with him or not on the
most important problems of your life
okay I like that kind of thinking
because it emphasizes the hard work the
the other part it was in terms of
meeting him in person I don't know if
you got to interact with that off
because when he was on mic with you he
was very he was very kind of it was hard
to bring it out of him yeah in person
before that he was very jovial and
friendly and Huggy he's great yeah and
then once he got on the microphone I was
like oh this is heavy lifting yeah bring
this out of him so then we started
drinking drinking and then oh yeah it
helps a lot and then once the drinking
you know then then I got to see who he
is
yeah that should I should have done that
but no drinkin ya know the the thing
that's really interesting is he's gone
if you look at his biography like the
kind of stress he's been under in terms
of he's been at the brink of losing his
his companies several times yes and he
you know he lost a child and he just
he's a that's the
inspired me as it's that he can be a
good dad while running so many companies
because I guy I was often wonder about
you know the kind of hours I pull on
what I'm doing can I have a family can i
really give up because I'd love to be a
father and can I have a family can I be
a good part like it's very very very
very difficult if you're working 18
hours a day yes to give your kids at the
time that they need but it's possible
not not 18 oh there's always I believe
in theirs in life day months maybe years
that you have to do the 18 hours a day
but not always it's time for right do
the sprint sprint yeah and then
establish everything and then sit back
but the problem with a lot of guys like
him is first of all it's very difficult
to find a replacement for the way he
thinks right so if he's if he's a CEO of
these companies and he's the one who's
the mastermind behind all these things
and then he wants to step back
finding a commensurate replacement is
insanely difficult because most people
who would be a potential replacement are
already off doing their own shit
and there's not many people like him I
know that's the interesting that's
actually the disappointing thing to me
is that he's a his kind of thinking is a
rarity I'm not yes I'm not sure why that
is exactly well he's joke around about
it but it I think there's a there's a
spectrum of evolution and his mind is
clearly way more advanced in my mind
there's there's something going on in
his mind in terms of his attraction to
engineering issues solutions to global
problems solutions to traffic problems
pollution problems all the other things
that he's the Internet he's trying to
put he's trying to give the world
Internet I mean he's got all these
things going simultaneously and one of
the things that I got out of him when I
was talking to him was that he almost
has a hard time containing these ideas
that are just pouring out of his head
like a raging river like he's trying to
catch handfuls of water his raging river
of ideas that's going through his head
you know and when he described his
childhood that he thought that
everybody was like that and then as he
got older he you know thought he was
insane yeah I didn't I've I can relate
to that I've I've I'm trying to learn
how to talk but I have trouble talking
because it's like a million ideas
running in my head I get anything you
say I'll immediately start there's these
like weird tangent they go off and I
want to start thinking about them is
that true with a lot of people in your
line of work and I think so I think
that's kind of puzzle solving like
that's one comfort is I'm just surprised
that a CEO is able to continue being
that kind of puzzle solver did you see
that tweet that he made about his plans
like he put a tweet up and I think it
was 2006 and then it's he's essentially
done all those things he's done all
those things now the thing is most
people I did so a lot of people love you
know musk but there's a quite a large
community of people that don't love him
so much
well that's always the case I don't know
I don't anybody great I don't I don't
know if that's always the case when is
it not the case who does who
accomplishes as many things as that guy
does where everybody loves him it's a
difficult I mean I'm not a historian I
could say Steve Jobs a terrible example
so many people hated that guy so many
people hated that guy I have personal
friends that are involved in technology
that wouldn't use Apple products because
he's such a twat sure they didn't want
to have anything to do with him they
knew people that were engineers under
him they said it was horrible and mean
and it just required so much would
scream at people and insult them and you
know he had these ideas in his head that
he needed to get done and if you
couldn't work the hours that you needed
to do what he wanted to accomplish you
know he would treat you like shit yeah
you're right and I just wish the world
was better I think because I like with
all people like that like we Steve Jobs
and with Elon Musk when he dies people
will always you know you'll remember the
greatness right yeah so that's that's
how it seems to work it's just sad that
you can't celebrate that currently but I
do think there's one particular aspect
of his personality that I also share
that pisses people off really bad which
is like you said he had a plan
but he's laid down that plan he's
promising things and he keeps being a
year or two or three late right and that
really I don't know if it actually
angers people or if people that already
don't like you use that as a thing to
say why they don't like you but it's
certainly a thing that people say a lot
yeah and but I think that's an essential
element of doing extremely difficult
things is over-promising and trying to
over-deliver that's the whole point
right is to to say to make all the
engineers around you believe that is
doable in a year that's essential to do
it in two years that's like that that
kind of and truly believing it as it
seems to be a century well didn't he
have people pay full price for that
roadster like you got on a list a time
yeah yes so you paid a quarter of a
million dollars for a car that's
essentially vaporware yeah but the thing
so I don't know there's a little bunch
of financial people to get like mad at
oh yeah oh yeah like there's investors
you know it's like it's I think it's the
most shorted stock in history yeah so
that keeps kicking ass
I don't confuses the fuck out of paper
Oh to me the stock market is the most
boring thing ever and people it's it's a
it's a gambling yes
and so you trying to say you're an
expert in investing in the stock market
that I blocked
I removed those people from my life
because they don't say anything any
interesting ideas I said it but the you
know when you're doing legitimate
investment yes that's that's a really
important services Society but if you're
commenting on the fundamentals of
engineering problems that real engineers
are trying to solve that's not
interesting to me the so it it that kind
of stuff upsets I think financial folks
but the beautiful thing is when you have
people buy vaporware and you bring that
vapor to reality that's the amazing
thing yeah that you will definitely
bring that roadster to reality if he
doesn't die that roadster will happen
yeah if he dies bail out now same with
him
that's the same of that insane cyber
truck yeah there's our truck is fucking
awesome I'm so ridiculous if he lives
long enough you better believe there's
humans being put on Mars whether it's
him or he gets everybody else see that
one I'm skeptical of just the type of
people that are gonna want to go see
you're not talking about the engineering
problem no I think it's possible it's
all tamale
you know I mean it's look can we put
people in space for sure we've
definitely done it
can we show things well some people
think space is fake space is fake
that's you ever Google hashtag space is
fake I it's wonderful it's a testament
to the education system in this country
well I and that's a tiny little tangent
I've gotten I joked about flat earth and
space is fake a little bit almost like
saying that's an interesting way to
being open-minded and then I realized
that's not something to joke about that
there's a community of people that take
it extremely seriously and then some of
them thank me for acknowledging that the
possibilities oh and then I said okay
bless their little hearts okay this is
not no little brains but I appreciated
their open-mindedness but they should
take introduction to physics MIT
OpenCourseWare it provides courses on
physics that should can a regular person
just sign up for that yeah yeah it's
open free so how does that work what do
you have to do in order to take those
courses it's all it's all made available
online just go to MIT MIT org or is it W
MIT OpenCourseWare is the website I mean
most people and it's all on YouTube now
oh that's beautiful
it's all lectures they're like millions
of views introductory lectures to
physics mathematics statistics I have
courses on the shadow six but in order
to understand that the work has been
done to recognize the fact that the
earth is round what would you recommend
right away classical mechanics with
exponential focus experimental focus see
none of those things are gonna do
mechanics is gonna say but if you're a
dingbat you're not gonna be able to
absorb all that look up to look at
a page for gravity I think mmm that's
not gonna help either
they say gravity's never been proven no
one understands gravity correct there's
no one who actually understands what
gravity is we just know the effects of
it it's actually magnetism yes for sure
so you have to undertake the effort of
proving the Wikipedia article for
gravity wrong so we keep a dia bro what
a terrible example Wikipedia sketchy it
says I'm Brian Collins brother says I
got celiac disease it's a bunch of shit
that's not real how do you know you're
not related I know okay I'm pretty sure
[Laughter]
my brother I don't know if it says it
anymore put it in there again fuck it
what capito is actually another
distributor system that's incredible ly
surprising to me that it works yeah it
is right because even though there is a
lot of misinformation in it and there's
a lot of you know falsehoods there's a
lot of really good information as well
you know particularly about historical
figures and interesting stuff you know
if you want to find facts on things and
on-site research science and technical
topics so not not like nutrition science
or things which there's a lot of debates
on like physics and math and so on it's
really good I mean it's really really
good so it's community supported yeah by
other physicists but moving back from
fight earth can go back to why you think
we're not going to be colonizing Mars oh
I'm not saying ever I'm just saying the
problem to me is the type of people that
would want to do it because they can't
return you know that's the the real
issue with going to Mars that you can't
return this you don't think there's a
huge number of non crazy explorers in
this world that want to die on Mars I
had a whole bit about it I really
believe that it's the the the fringe of
the fringe that would be willing to die
on Mars no I'll be willing to dying Mars
really I stay here come on I like you
don't go that no it's here's my take you
like about me it's all temporary
what's all temporary like life yeah it's
temporary right you're gonna die someday
sure it but if you decide to die on
fucking Mars like bro you'll be sending
me emails from Mars dude I fucked up
I won't be such nonsense this is the
thing you've your ear into the Native
Americans you've been read yeah I've
been following your work there I'm sad
obsessed man I've been upset about World
War two or one but you're like you're
converting me to think of like to the to
the both the warrior cultures and the
suffering in that world the sufferings
insane it's insane I'm this book on
Black Elk man it details his life from
he was a young boy when during Custer's
last stand he was there when Custer was
killed Black Elk yeah but the man the
guy yeah what do you call that
he's a habla Louis Lakota medicine man
medicine man yeah and he just lived
through the transition he lived through
the transition of them battling with the
u.s. soldiers to them being on the
reservation and fucking insane poverty
insane just did in dis the stories of
people the illnesses and the deaths how
many people's children died mal knew
malnourished and starvation abuse and
then how just how much they hated where
they were living and how they were
living on the reservation yeah it's
horrific man it's horrific it's like
it's hard to imagine it's hard to
imagine when you're reading that this
just happened you know I mean he's
talking about the the really horrible
parts at the end were in the early 1920s
1930s it's hard to imagine it's hard to
imagine that this this tribe from 100
years prior in the 1820s were living
wild and free and we're you know we're
living the same way they had lived for
hundreds of years and had this
incredible relationship with the land
and these incredible religion that they
practiced where they worshipped the the
the earth and the animals and the sky
and they had all these concepts for the
way you should live your life and how to
guarantee prosperity and how to
guarantee success and man it's just the
had a fascinating culture I mean and
it's gone it was wiped off the face of
the map there was nothing like it
anywhere else on earth there's no there
was no culture anywhere on earth that
was like the Native American culture in
the 1600s 1700s 1800s and but in that
period of time they had this spectacular
way of life and there was often very
cruel and very ruthless and they ward on
each other like this this idea that
Native Americans were living in peace
and harmony with each other's nonsense
yes I started I was listed listening
while doing hills yes to keep my ass as
listening to the empire of the summer
moon fucking correct Magic III commented
in your Instagram like saying something
you know basically admiring the purity
of that way of life yeah I got so much
shit by people saying oh you think rape
and murderers is pure and admirable so
there's a certainly an aspect to their
way of life which is sort of the Warrior
Ethos right the Comanches in particular
magic they were the most ruthless the
most warlike that's all they did
basically like that Genghis Khan the
same kind of the same horses the
innovators actually more innovators yeah
and all they ate was meat as well I mean
all day day was Buffalo I mean they they
essentially rode with the Buffalo killed
Buffalo hunted Buffalo and then raided
other tribes and then until the white
man came and then they started raiding
the white man killing the white man but
they were you know at war with white
people for hundreds of years I mean they
were the reason why the West was hard to
settle I mean the sneaky shit I don't
know if you've gotten to the point where
they were giving people these big swaths
of land in Oklahoma and they essentially
set them up to be killed by the Comanche
they will say hey go out here we'll give
you sixteen hundred acres it's all yours
and no like Oh terrific let's get our
family and getting a wagon and no one
let him know that the wildest
motherfuckers that have ever lived on
this continent were running that place
and they would go there and just get
slaughtered and one after another
families were wiped out that
people were kidnapped and that lady that
I have on the wall outside Cynthia Ann
Parker who was adopted by the Comanches
she's her family was murdered in front
of her when she was nine years old and
she became the wife of a great Comanche
chief and her son became the last
Comanche chief Quanah Parker it's crazy
that story it's the craziest story
there's all these tribes that some are
probably more warlike someone more
pieces yes that that had a way of life
here I don't know I don't want to
romanticize too much you most people
don't believe me but I'd really like
that
way of life that closeness to nature you
said texting and from Mars or whatever I
like I like you know I wouldn't choose
it but I would be happier if I was
forced into it it seems like a Connor
intuitive notion but because I'm so weak
I'm so soft like even running Hills
yesterday I realize how soft I am well
you work too much
ya know behind a computer yeah a little
fingers typing but you're also a black
belt in jujitsu you also a martial
artist you know me against the Comanche
warrior good luck I think you know about
the Comanche up they don't know how to
fight for real if they had a weapon
they'd kill you think you're just I know
I I listen first of all they were pretty
small they weren't very big people maybe
a second of all they didn't know jujitsu
dad the average person that doesn't know
jujitsu you're gonna choke the fuck out
of them that'd be fun actually to sort
of go into different warring cultures
they go in Ganga's Khan's times yeah
without weapons to see what kind of
combat styles a dad just send Francis
and gah know he'd clean out the entire
fuck I mean just send hos Gracie
yeah sure pressing down on all
generations will be yeah I'd be screwed
interesting Yeah right it's just
overwhelming but I think that if you had
real jujitsu skills um you know what you
know now today particularly because
jujitsu has evolved so much I mean even
the jujitsu of 2020 is so radically
different from the jujitsu of you know
1990 it's radically different
like almost unrecognizable in a lot of
ways but clearly though the basics are
still the most important and there are
some of the Great's of all time who just
operate with the basics whether it's
hard your Gracie or Hicks and Gracie or
you know there's a lot of great great
jiu-jitsu players that just have those
solid solid ribeiro you know solid
basics that are just honed to a
razor-sharp edge you know you know
chrome Chrome Gracie he's got and I when
I say basic it is a compliment I mean he
you know arm bars triangles guillotines
rear naked choke those types of things
but perfected to a level that is they
don't they don't participate in a lot of
the more modern there's a lot of like
crafty weird stuff that a lot of guys
try today and some of the greats even
the greats that participate in jiu-jitsu
matches today and are effective at it
don't don't really have that kind of
style yeah I mean but crona's actually
has some more creativity if you look at
Roger Gracie that's like there's I don't
I don't even know if he does foot locks
like I think that my favorite thing to
do is on YouTube just watch Roger Gracie
matches like he looks like he's half
asleep and he demolishes the greatest
black belts in the world slowly by just
like in a half-asleep way taking them
down passing their guards going to mount
and doing a choke yeah it's like the
against I don't know buchecha I can
against just the best
well my instructor John Jacques Machado
same thing man
just his style is just solid basics of
Jiu Jitsu and he has a saying that you
more you know the less you use which is
really interesting you mentioned
Comanche warriors in the meet you know
Congrats on the I saw the the died
carnivore diet is yeah man here's
something crazy I got off that diet for
this weekend because it was I did the
month and then once Saturday came around
I said ate Italian food I had Girl Scout
cookie and pasta and then yesterday I
went to Disneyland so yesterday I went
way
way off the diet and I had ice cream and
I ate all kinds of shitty food and I was
getting back pains and knee pains and
all these kind of weird pains that went
away when I was on the diet now this is
not a testament against plant-based
diets cuz I was eating shit
shitty food right and pot pasta you know
which is a lot of you know bright hot
stuff yeah
yes spaghetti that stuff it causes
inflammation it just does you know it
just does sugar causes inflammation but
it's interesting to have this great
month where basically two weeks in after
the diarrhea died off I had two solid
weeks of no aches and pains and feeling
great I was like this is wild this is
really why I feel amazing look and then
two days of eating shit and like my back
hurts right now I'm sitting here my back
is hurting my knee was hurting lot
yesterday like all those weird aches
come right back well it's uh there's a
the nice thing about the Joe Rogan
effect is that you trying to die and
you're talking about keto a lot that's
like become more socially acceptable to
do because I've been eating keto or
low-carb for many years and doing
fasting like 24 or 48-hour fast mm-hmm
and I always kind of keep him one low
down but even this time like traveling
like what I like to do when traveling is
I'm kind of I'm trying to be given my
current situation and not spend much
money and so I go one of the best ways
to go either carnivore or keto is to go
to McDonald's and just order beef
patties they'll sell you just be
passionate ah he's a dollar fifty really
fatty for a quarter pound yeah so you
can you know like it's like usually what
I use about two pounds of meat a day and
that's what is it I don't know that's
like 15 bucks so you've been doing this
carnivore thing - mm-hmm how long you
been doing it for off and on so I have
two for the carnivore I've done since
the first time you either your podcast
to Jordan Peterson or that kind of thing
I died in two but before then I've been
doing Kido like my favorite meal is just
like meat and I know some people hate
cauliflower but cauliflower and or green
beans just that's do you worry if people
hate cauliflower why'd you have to make
that distinction
some people hate cauliflower I move out
their hate and cauliflower who the fuck
are those people that's a weird thing
that I just said a bunch of people say
Kyle first sucks recently so cookie
right it doesn't suck you know what's
good Buffalo cauliflower like buffalo
wings buffalo sauce golf are fucking
delicious what's that but that says
sauce yeah no sauces is like you're
giving in to your weakness and spices
and you're given away no see like call
up a blender taste I Timmy is better
because you get to appreciate the the
fundamentals of the food so I got okay
so I don't know I just enjoy it
do you salt meat salt yeah oh how do you
do that when you don't appreciate the
fundamentals of the meat yeah good point
yeah you don't like you're playing chess
do you like hot sauce hot sauce on
everything yeah I do but I stay away
from it like I I tried to listen food to
me right now in my life is a source of
energy not a source of pleasure but it
can be both I unfortunately I'm not
addicted to drugs I'm not addicted to
many things but with food my mind I
don't know how to moderate really so
like anything pleasurable is a problem
for me like cookies you put two cookies
in front of me to like I don't know how
to eat just one of them like it just
doesn't my brain is terrible at it
Lissa's girl caught a Girl Scout cookie
season son yeah they changed the name of
Samoas those are my favorite and now
they have a new name they're like I
think they're calling like Tagalongs or
something like that
what's that for a while I think really
whether they change their separate
things though I think is that am i
talking about the wrong thing the ones
that are like though they're chocolate
on the bottom that's to have that
coconut in them yeah yeah yeah
yeah that doesn't sound like the words
of a man who's
stick to the carnivore diet oh I miss
dick all right yeah I mean I'll have
cheat days or cheap meals I should say
tag along as the peanut butter oh that's
right those are good so those are
fucking good what is it what are the
Samoans now what do they call them now
they just changed they just changed to
something new ever
no what are you a robot I'm rushing to
basically robot basically I ate six of
those and I was feeling like shit Oh
what it maybe this is just a very quick
caramel delight is that what's called
now well I think so just someone might
have owned another company or whoever
they were paying to me I was wondering
if it was a racial issue that's what the
question was was someone saying because
it was racist this odd questions there's
no the name of the cookies are owned by
the two different companies who make
them and they just you know it changed
the name racial issue Wow cuz Samoa
like someone might be like sensitive to
having a cookie they're named after an
island people I gave fuckface that's our
Island not your cookie you know see that
those cookies don't even sound good to
me anymore
what about American cheese it's not okay
I cheated she American cheese I'm not
okay American oh yeah what what like I
stay with a Russian dog it's a cottage
cheese well there's there's Swiss cheese
there's American cheese and that's it
right is there any other countries that
are named specifically after the cheese
named after the country I bet you it's
not even just like french fries I bet
you American cheese is not even American
do you remember when there was freedom
fries for a while people were trying to
call fries freedom fries like post-911
cuz they were mad that France didn't
want us going over to Iraq and then
people who hate freedom banned it yeah
freedom fries oh that's so dumb but the
thing I really like actually like I
think that's the thing that people don't
often talk about is the focus like my
life I think a lot of people do this is
being able to focus for long periods of
time and that's why I stuck with with
Kido know those core things especially
yes the focus is pretty tremendous well
that's what I really got with the car
the amount of my flatness of energy the
lack of dips and valleys peaks and
valleys it's amazing yeah it's great
it's and the fast fast thing helps me to
like Jack Dorsey doesn't only what's
called Oh mad one meal a day yeah you
could just say one meal a day this old
mad stuff Jesus Christ
yeah I'm uh I'm a hip reddit lingo guy I
think I read it it's so mad oh okay no I
don't know one meal a day but 20 you
know 24-hour fast that that that's
that's a careful weapon you have to play
with at least for me like it for some
it's weird it helps your mind really
focus I can sit sometimes four five six
hours a day like programming really
thinking in like loose track of time and
really focus but when you do so when you
interact with other human beings you're
kind of a little bit of an asshole I am
sorry I mean when I went Oh in a in a
way where it's it's funny but if there's
something about a person that's full of
crap you are more likely to point that
out like when you're on keto or
carnivore no it's a respective of diet
keto carnivore whatever is the fasting
oh the fasting fasting really so it's
you're more irritable what is I I think
it's irritable but you also see things
more clearly it's so like I don't know
I'll talk to my parents right or
something like that when I'm more
well-fed I'll be like just enjoy having
fun with them and if I'm like fasted
I'll be like why are you always judging
me kind of thing right like you you you
realize the thing the the aspects of the
interaction which are problematic and
you want to sort of highlight them I'm
just sort of noticing it which is
problematic when you're in a working
environment especially sort of
deliberating discussing with other
engineers how to solve a problem I'm
more likely especially you know would
lead a team to say that somebody's a
little bit full of shit when I'm fasting
as opposed that makes sense being a
little bit more kind and eloquent about
expressing
why they're full of shit I found myself
feeling more aggressive and more
inclined to use recreational insults
when fasting or carnival carnivore
what's the recreation I thought like
come on fuckface fuckface
you know like saying something like that
someone or fill in the blank with
whatever the rate of other words using
academic paper the rate of fuckface goes
up well just just in in casual
conversation I'd find myself using fun
insults but more of like would the
intent of kindness behind like no I mean
having fun even talking about people who
aren't there just having fun but that
that's also a function of being a
comedian we do that to each other really
bad yeah like when like I had a birthday
my friends made me cake said happy
birthday faggot
it's like that kind of shit is just so a
part of the culture of comedians like
everybody calls everybody bitch
everybody you know it's just yeah the
fun which is awesome because this
comedian culture is now at full-on war
with the canceled culture and it's like
it's like two armies of people who don't
give a damn the people who give way too
much of a damn well I have mixed
feelings about all that stuff
but I ultimately feel like the
directions moving in the reason why it's
happening is for good I think there's a
lot of people that are complaining about
things and they're trying to cancel
people and all that stuff and it's you
know ultimately some of its misguided
but I think the ideas behind it like the
the primary push like the gravity behind
it is people want less racism less
discrimination less less of a lot of
things but then along the way you have
hypocritical human behavior that gets
involved in this and you have people
that are you know deeply flawed
themselves but pointing out minor flaws
and other people and then they get
exposed and they've feel horrible and
for every person who participates in
this cancel culture it's like the wave
is coming back at you I mean it comes in
and it comes out and if you go too far
out on that fucking pier it's you
gonna get you and this is part of it
that we're learning and I think what
what people are today like if you look
at the just the if you look at humanity
from like the 1930s whose Hardman people
lived in a hard way it was ruthless if
you've watched films from the 1900s
early 1900s the first of all the
domestic violence was so normal yeah
like heroes in movies in the fifties and
sixties just some active women in the
face heroes smack their wives you know
hit their kids as it was a different
world and and people would look probably
at our time today and say you know
people openly ate meat meaning not or
like I could see it not engineered not
engineered meat right yeah sort of ate
meat from factory farms mmm-hmm sort of
as opposed to recreationally hunting it
themselves and eating what they hunted
or engineered meats allowed me yeah or
you can get ethically raised food I mean
there are there are a lot of ranchers
like it's one of the things that butcher
box does very well as they make sure
that they have relationships with
ranchers who have a commitment to
ethically raised animals and ethically
ethically killed animals and what that
means is you know they don't participate
in anything that has anything to do with
factory farming no antibiotics no added
hormones ever and that is possible I
mean people have been eating animals
from the beginning of time literally 97%
of the world eats animals and this idea
that the only way to do it is through
factory farming I don't think that's
correct
and the only way you know I mean this
the idea is if you eat meat you
participate in factory farming and
that's horrific I don't think that's
true but I do think it is true when it
comes to fast food for the most part and
that's unfortunate and I think if they
could I mean we need more transparency
for sure when it comes to that stuff and
that's one of the reasons why those
ag-gag laws agricultural gag laws or
people there's laws that prevent people
from working in these factory farming
situations to expose there's laws that
prohibit them from exposing the horrors
of these environments that's a real
problem
that's real issue that's clearly
designed to protect that industry and
allow them to commit these crimes yeah
it's one of the things I'm a I'm
conscious of my own hypocrisy in this
I've I think deeply unfortunately love
meat
sort of like and I'm aware of the the
the how unethical factory farming is
yeah and so those two things I have to
sit with and be conscious of I don't
know it's a question like when did that
happen
when did the factory farming thing have
you go back to the 1930s there was no
factory farming it was just farming yeah
sure I think there's probably
incremental I sure wasn't in 1930s there
wasn't already some mass so what is time
for farming is scale but also sort of
the suffering there's a certain line you
start to cross mm-hmm where it just
feels to us I mean yeah it's unclear
which point it really becomes torture
versus agricultural agriculture mm-hmm
that's an interesting line and we're
gonna yeah this is probably a good
answer for that the real problem is food
the birth of fast food is really
probably where it short but it wears
McDonald's McDonald's has probably
started a hundred years ago I don't know
I'm not sure when store um but at scale
you know the the feeding of massive
amounts of people that aren't growing
anything that's the real issues the real
issue is when you whether you're in New
York City or Shanghai or Los Angeles
large gigantic metropolitan areas that
aren't growing anything they got to get
a lot of food to those people if you
have 20 million people like in Los
Angeles 20 million people eat meat
that's a lot of meat yeah you guys get
them yeah I got to feed them oh those
signs steps up I think lab engineer me
just got interesting yeah it is
interesting
heavy how much have you paid attention
to it not much I'm waiting like
this is the horrible thing I'm very
cognizant of it that I kind of don't
allow my brain to think much about this
whole space because I love meat I'm
trying to save money I get it right so
you eat those McDonald's founder pains
you know so I and the life of a
scientist right the scientist and
especially now I've taken a leap that's
a difficult leap so I'm still affiliated
with MIT but I decided to leave my
full-time position why do a start-up so
I want to try to build try and trying to
build the kind of thing I dreamed about
we talked about the movie her I'm
working that's been 80 90 percent of my
day in fact me doing the podcast is
trying to is not trying is already
successful at giving me enough money for
food and shelter tell people the name of
the podcast so they can
artificial-intelligence podcast Lex
Friedman listen listen to uh was it you
know musk Eric Weiss I was on there
I talk Gary Kasparov Chomsky Sean
Carroll Sean Carroll is brilliant he is
brilliant what is it like talking to
Chomsky he loves yeah well I talk most
people say my voice is very boring and I
talk slowly
to those people I say go fuck yourself I
love you I love you you're right I'm
trying to actually it's very difficult
to be to express thoughts like some hair
struggles with us to to express thoughts
with the kind of humor and eloquence
that they are in your brain like to
convert them as a comedian you're
essentially a storyteller so you already
you don't often you probably don't even
acknowledge you don't even know how you
did it you're like Roger Gracie
you've probably developed this art of
storytelling of being able to laugh and
make other people laugh of like bouncing
back and forth to me most of my life has
been spent behind a book or computer
thinking interesting thoughts but not
connecting with other people and doing
that dance of conversation so learning
that dance while also thinking
is really tough so with Chomsky was like
a pleasure because we could all both be
robots but but I think he's like 92
years old is he really yeah and the
thing I'd loved the bottom so you know
there's all that political stuff that I
don't pay attention I mean he's he's a
major sort of activist but he's also a
linguist that thinks that language is at
the core of everything of cognition so
like it's at the bottom everything
starts with language cognition the
reasoning perception all of that is
things built on top of language this is
a brilliant sort of seminal research but
92 years old he still looked in my eyes
and really listened and really thought
and really sharp ideas came out I mean
you do the same thing that was just
people ask me like we meet Joe Rogan
like you don't take yourself too
seriously even with your celebrity with
the popular the podcast that's a huge
thing and with Chomsky what was really
surprising to me is well he's pretty
stubborn around his ideas and so on
people criticize him he's so stubborn in
his ways he didn't take himself too
seriously like i sat there I'm just
doing some kid talking to him he like
really listened mmm like the stupid
questions the interesting questions he
really listened 92 years old to have
that kind of curiosity that was I was
like I'm so happy when I see that kind
of thing yeah that's that's a wonderful
example of a career academic who's still
just concentrating on ideas ideas
yeah I'm still thinking always you know
cuz academics can be like really any
other endeavor any other discipline you
can get lazy right you see that in
almost every walk of life there's
certain people that rest on their
laurels and especially when you become
popular you get really good at
explaining so you get like you do these
talks you geez lectures you start saying
the same thing over and over you know
and you forget to listen like out of
because of because of this podcast of
the the artificial intelligence boxes
but also Joe Rogan very two different
groups of fans whom I both love you know
people come up to me and start a
conversation and I love it like the just
like listening to them and they're you
know I hope I never lose that I'm like
younger than Chomsky I hope you stay
that way it's
nice of you have the time it's a problem
if you're in the rush and someone wants
to talk to you about something like very
deep yes I've had those moments where
someone says hey man I got to ask you
and then they might do this is a long
conversation I can't can't that's the
version that's your burden actually I'm
in a beautiful place which I don't think
will last too long which is I'm not
sufficiently famous to to work like
though those things don't happen often
and right - what can I can have that
conversation right you have the luxury
although let me say I got to hang out
Bryan Callen over been a huge fan of on
on New Year's Eve I got to watch the old
man dance and this funny thing happened
he's a celebrity yeah so we're hanging
out and two times somebody came up to me
and Bryan and they said wow it's Lex
Friedman it's so good fucker
mamie's so proud it's because it's a
boss then yeah I think it's like nerds
and whatever sure yeah that was funny
though Blair's he's uh he's one of my I
mean it was in credit like I I didn't
know you guys were friends until it all
came together in the podcast and so and
I was a huge fan of his from like MADtv
days he's one of my oldest friends
yeah how'd you guys what's-what's met on
MADtv
I was a host one week and he was the he
was you know one of the stars of show
he's an awesome guy man I could really
underappreciated person and he's a guy
that because he acts so much and because
he gets into that you know he's just
always into that world he didn't put the
same amount of time into doing his
podcast his personal podcast is I think
he should have because he's great at it
you know he was one of the first people
that I knew that interviewed Jordan
Peterson and he's know that yeah he said
a bunch of brilliant people on his
podcast he's had a bunch of like really
interesting intellectuals and scientists
and think it's mixed mental arts or
something like that yeah he's doing it
with it with hunter his friend we
stopped doing it with him
he's uh he's an unusual guy Brian
countess cuz he's silly but he's also
brilliant yeah you can see that sort of
Eric Weinstein has the same quality
obviously from different worlds the
silliness you can see through the
silliness that there's an intelligent
first of all a good human being there
but also being but at the same time he's
like the butt of every joke I appreciate
that so much
I love silly people yeah silly people
are so much more fun the people that are
like easily offended and easily upset
like oh he's so exhausting silly people
are the best I actually say I'd uh I
played your theme song on guitar in
Brian cows researching it like how do
you play in a Joey theme song and
brought there's a Bryan Callen sing yeah
video uh like Joe Rogan shoulders for
days yes yeah some silly song he made it
I'm gonna I'm working on an ideal with
I'm gonna try to figure out cuz I can
play guitar and play the theme song and
put up online he's gonna work together
make an album you know we're gonna make
it out like a Joe Rogan Thema he's gonna
come up with some words on there what's
the notes you got you got pages and
pages of notes in front of you these are
stuff that you really wanted to discuss
yeah yeah well we talked about AI at all
but let me at least Boston Dynamics may
be interesting to talk about I don't
think it was a fake video that I sent
Jamie today these motherfuckers they
keep getting me there's a new fake video
it was the same one I think they
someone's take another clip from it
oh is it those guys have been making VFX
videos on YouTube for 10 plus years
they're really good at it it's so good
people don't know that there's a YouTube
channel where people I think it's a
single YouTube channel that does like
yeah visual effects like fake humanoid
or hot dog robots that kind of resemble
something like Boston Dynamics AX dude
this is one easy stuff with guns yeah
this one they gave the robot a gun and
have pull it up Jamie what is the
gentleman the corridor digital on
YouTube is the guys that keep that make
it quarter crew is the YouTube channel
is fucking incredible that it's not real
it looks so real and so the the robot
they kick it they hit it with a hockey
helmet or a hockey stick rather they're
like long video they made a while ago
they might have made a new one
which was one out in desert but I think
I had seen it before I see they trick
you with the Boston Dynamics it's boss
town and boss Thomas it looks so
realistic but here's the thing we're not
that far off from this thing no okay
let's let's walk it back let's walk it
back it it's not realistic and what way
so let's see it's it looks human
realistic so you can tell it's a human
like a robotics person could tell it's a
human because it's really difficult to
do that kind of motion that kind of
movement Oh like when it's getting shot
well not the getting shit so there's a
lot of movement it does for the purpose
of comedy right like it actually is on
purpose trying to look like a human for
the comedic internet effect like getting
a human that's getting pissed off and so
on yeah those qualities are like another
order I'm like this here where it's like
oh come on
so for terminator type of movements some
of those are just comedic you know you
don't need Terminator type robot right
but they do have legitimate robots that
can do backflips now and do so it's
really the back players I guess for this
is real this is all reals manipulation
so all of these robots depending on what
we're talking about here but those are
remote-controlled and these are single
demonstrations that they've perfected so
they're it's really important to
distinguish between the body of the
robot and the brain of the robot so
these bodies unlike anything else I'm
like a Roomba unlike a drone who can
also be very threatening the these
bodies somehow we enter amorphize them
and they terrify us I don't know what it
is I met spot minion person that was one
of the most transformative moments in my
life really because I know how dumb it
is but the experience of it like it's
not even ahead it's supposed to be a
hand but it looks like a head and it
like looking up at me with that hand I
felt like I was like I think it was
magic it was like a it was like
Frankenstein coming to life is this
moment of creation
and what I realize is my own brain sort
of anthropomorphize in the same way
you're like looking at these robots and
you're thinking these things are
terrifying you know like what's like you
know in ten 20 years where are we gonna
be you know that's our brain playing
tricks on us because the key thing
that's a threat to humanity or an
exciting possibility for humanity's the
intelligence that the robots the brains
the mind and these robots have very very
little intelligence so one of the in
terms of being able to perceive and
understand the world very importantly
very importantly to be learn to learn
about the world from scratch so the
terrifying thing is you talked often
like with this philosophical kind of
notion that sam harris talks about sort
of exponential improvement be able to
become human level intelligence
superhuman level intelligence in a
matter of days become more intelligent
than that that's all learning process
that's being able to learn that's the
key aspect we're in a very early days of
that there's a there's an idea of you
know Big Bang is a funny word for one of
the most fundamental ideas in the nature
of our universe same way self play is a
term for I think one of the most
important powerful ideas and artificial
intelligence that that people are
currently working on so self play I
don't know if you're familiar with a
company called deep mind and open AI
google deepmind and a game I know you're
a first-person shooter guy but Starcraft
and dota 2 so last year these are what
he called them real-time strategy I
guess in people won millions of dollars
in eSport competitions and so open AI
separately had open AI 5 which took on
dota 2 dota 2 is the computer game based
on Warcraft 3 that's the most popular
eSport game and then deep mine took on
Starcraft with their alpha star system
and the key amazing thing is they're
similar to alphago and alpha 0 they
learn to play go is the mechanism of
self play that's the exciting mechanism
that I think if we can figure out how to
have an impact on more serious problems
than gay
we'll be transformative okay what is it
it's learning from scratch in a
competitive environment so thinking of
you have two white belts so I'm going to
teach it so you have you have two white
balls training against each other and
trying to figure out how to beat each
other without ever having black belt
supervision in structures and so on and
slowly getting better that way coming up
inventing new moves that way and
eventually they get better and better by
that competitive process that's the
Machine playing itself with all human
supervision the interesting thing is
there's a lot of cases in which if you
set up the competitive environment well
enough for those two white belts they'll
learn to be black belts they'll learn to
be not only black balls they'll learn to
be better than like exactly the kind of
evolution that's happening at MMA right
now if you put that in a digital space
and speed it up you know a million fold
it'll continue to improve let me pause
here because this is one of the things
that I think probably translates to AI
as it does to jiu-jitsu you need more
than one opponent like you can't have
one input one person training with one
person specifically and singularly
you're not going to develop the type of
game that you need to become a real
black belt in jujitsu 100% exactly so
that's part of the brilliance of this
mechanism so imagine you didn't just
have white belts you had a opportunity
to generate a new random white belt like
that like a fat big one little one right
and all kinds of different one that
aggressive one Bravo
passive passive one and then and let
them play and then it's what you find is
like jiu-jitsu might be simpler than the
general problem sort of different kind
of like Starcraft and so on but there is
sets of strategies in this giant space
they're these complex hierarchical
strategies like high-level strategies
and then specifics of different moves
that emerge some of which you didn't
even realize it existed and that
requires that you start with a huge
amounts of random initial states like
the
the fat person the skinny person the
aggressive person so on and then you
also keep injecting randomness in the
system so you discover new ideas so even
when you reach purple belt you don't
continue with those same people you
start your own school you start like you
start expanding to totally random new
ideas and expanding this way and what
you find out is there's totally
surprising to human beings like in the
game of chess or in the game of go in a
game of StarCraft these this self play
mechanism can do what sort of AI people
have dreamed of which is be creative
create totally new behaviors totally new
strategies they're surprising to human
experts that's why Gogh was so
astounding to them right because it's
such a complex game such a hard game and
and it's able to well the first
astounding thing is able to beat the
world champion yeah the second
astounding thing about both chess and go
is it's able to create totally new ideas
sort of I'm not good enough at chess or
go to understand the newness of them but
grandmasters talk about the way alpha
alpha zero plays chess and they say
there's a lot of brilliant interesting
ideas they're like very counterintuitive
ideas and that's such a and that's all
the first breakthroughs didn't have as
much self play they were trained on
human experts but alpha 0 and alpha star
and open AI 5 these systems are all
fundamentally self-playing meaning no
human supervision starting from scratch
so no black ball instructor you just
wrote and that means so they learning
from scratch that's the that's
exceptionally powerful use that that's a
process from zero you can get the
superhuman level intelligence in a
particular task in a matter of days mmm
that's that's super powerful super
exciting super terrifying if that's kind
of when you think about the challenges
we don't know how to do that in the
physical space in the space of robots
there's something fundamentally
different about being able to perceive
to understand this environment to do
common sense reasoning the thing we
really take for granted is Arbor
to reason about the physics of the world
about the fact that things weigh things
that you can stack things on top of each
other the fact that some things are hard
some things are saw some things are
painful when you touch them all that
like there seems to be a giant Wikipedia
inside our brain of like common sense
dumb logic that's very tough to build up
that this yeah that's that's it it seems
to be an exceptionally difficult
learning problem that Boston Dynamics
will have to solve in order to achieve
even the same kind of physical movement
behavior that we saw in those videos and
then on top of that to have the ethical
behavior the that not the ethical sort
of the objective the complex strategy is
involved in first following orders and
then getting frustrated and then
shooting everybody that's an
exceptionally difficult thing to arrive
at because ultimately these systems
operate on set a set of objectives and
what a lot of people that think about
artificial general intelligence say the
objectives we need to inject in these
systems that they're trained on you need
to have one uncertainty so they should
always doubt themselves just like if you
want to be a good black ball you should
always be sort of always open-minded
sort of relaxed always needing to learn
techniques it's okay to get submitted so
always always have a degree of
uncertainty about your worldview the
kind of thing we criticized Twitter
outraged mobs for not having hmm
so having uncertainty and the other
thing is always have a place where
there's should be human supervision and
I think I just there's a I think we have
good mechanisms for that in place that I
think I'm very optimistic about where
these kinds of learning systems can take
us the exciting thing is Boston Danya or
terrifying depending on whether you
think I'm a trustworthy human being but
Boston Dynamics is now opening up their
platform so they're working with a few
people I'm trying to make I'm quite busy
these days I'll try to make time to make
it happen
to work with them to build stuff on top
of the platform so that's I am referring
to spot mini as a platform so this robot
is this dumb it's like a Roomba it's a
dumb mechanistic thing that can move for
you but you can build you can add a
brain on top of it so you can make it
learn you can make it see the world and
so on that's all extra that's not what
Boston Dynamics offers so they want to
work with people like me to to add that
kind of capability and that's exciting
because now you can have hundreds of
people to start to add interesting
learning capabilities and so I mean I
mean have to retract my words about how
far away we are
mmm with the capabilities of these
robots once you now open it up to the
Internet so I was speaking to Boston
Dynamics I think they're solving the
really hard robotics problem but once
you open it up to the huge world of
researchers that are doing machine
learning and doing computer vision and
doing AI research the kind of
capabilities that might add to these
robots might surprises that's where
people are concerned right the big leaps
the big lead and then sort of just not
being aware of the consequences of these
big leaps and once you let the genie out
of the bottle you can never put it back
right the genie and the self play
mechanism where you grow from zero to
becoming world-class chess player that's
that's the genie being out of the bottle
did you see black mirror yeah black
mirror you know that episode heavy metal
with heavy metal very difficult to pull
that off very so for now for now and and
you had a you had a conversation with
Nick Bostrom also talking with on the
podcast yeah one of the things he
mentioned is so I don't think he thinks
about the stuff a lot I do about
military applications mm-hmm I talked to
folks that's one of the things people
don't just like with me they kind of put
to the side they don't want to think
about military applications Brian
I would be more worried about drones
that I would be about robot dogs right
because the kind of stuff is on the
black mirror episode is really difficult
to pull off to make a robot learn drums
are kind of more impressive right
because they they hover they can move
through 3d space they have Hellfire
missiles attached to them
I mean there's a lot of crazy shit that
they can absolutely do right now with
drones and you're talking about
large-scale drones but you can think of
small scale drums and I think there's a
I think there's also a black mayor
episode with drones where they take over
I haven't seen that one so there's a I
think there's drones everywhere and
they're kind of doing you know your
basic friendly government surveillance
mass surveillance kind of thing I think
it's four I think they sell in the
episode that is for a good cause
we'll see what spoiler alerts but I
think they like start killing everybody
or duh
wasn't there there has been research
done on making artificial insects that
have like little cameras inside of them
that look like like a dragonfly or some
some sort of bug and they fly around and
they could film things and the thing
that terrifies a lot of people is going
more microscopic than that more like
robots inside the body that help you
cure diseases or cold mud are certain
things even at the nano scale so
basically creating viruses yeah a new
viruses little tiny ones yeah and Dave
if they learn they can be pretty dumb
but on a mass scale Dom you don't have
to be intelligent to destroy all of
human civilization
so so the real question about this
artificial intelligence stuff that
everybody seems to the ultimate end of
the line
the what Sam Harris is terrified of is
it becoming sentient and it making its
own decisions and deciding that we don't
need people that's what everybody's
really scared of right I I'm not sure if
everybody's scared of it yeah they might
be I think that's a story that's the
most compelling the sexiest story that
the philosopher side of a Sam Harris is
very attracted to yeah I am also
interested in that story but I think
achieving sentient I think that requires
also creating consciousness I think that
crew there requires creating the kind of
intelligence and cognition and reasoning
abilities that's really really difficult
I think will create dangerous software
based systems before then they'll be
I think we already have them the YouTube
algorithm the Twitter the recommender
systems of Twitter and Facebook and
YouTube from everything I know having
talked to those folks I mean worked on
it the the challenging aspect there is
they have the power to control minds the
mass sort of what the mass population
thinks and YouTube itself and Twitter
itself don't have direct ability to
control the algorithm exactly like the
one they don't have a way to understand
the algorithm and - they don't have a
way to control it because but what I
mean by control is control it in a way
that leads to an aggregate a better
civilization meaning like sort of the
Steven Pinker or the better angels of
our nature so it encouraged the better
size of ourselves it's very difficult to
control a single algorithm that
recommends the the journey of millions
of people through the space of the
Internet it's very difficult to know
that and I think that intelligence
instilled in those algorithms will have
a much more potentially either positive
or detrimental effect than sentient
killer robots I hope we get to sentient
killer robots because that problem I
think we can work with I'm I'm very
optimistic about the positive aspects of
approaching sentient of approaching
general intelligence there's going to be
a huge amount of benefit and I think
there will be well there's a lot of
Meccans that can protect against that
going wrong just from knowing the we
know how to control intelligence systems
when they are sort of in a box when
there are singular systems when they're
distributed across millions of people
and there's not a single control point
that becomes really difficult hmm and
that's that's the worry for me is the
distributed nature of dumb algorithms on
every single phone sort of sort of
controlling the behavior adjusting the
behavior adjusting the learning journey
of different
individuals so like to me the biggest
worry and the most exciting thing is
recommender systems what they're called
a Twitter at Facebook at YouTube YouTube
especially that one that one has just
like I think you mentioned there's
something special about videos in terms
of educating and sometimes indoctrinated
yeah and YouTube has the hardest time I
mean they have such a difficult problem
on their hands in terms of in terms of
that recommendation because they don't
this is a this is a machine learning
problem but knowing the contents of
tweets is much easier than knowing the
contents of videos hmm like we our
algorithms are really dumb in terms of
being able to watch a video understand
what's being talked about so all its
look all YouTube is looking at is the
title and the description and that's it
mostly the title it's it's like
basically keyword searching you know and
it's looking at the at the clicking
viewing behavior of the different people
so like it figures out that the Flat
Earth supporters enjoy these kinds of
videos it forms a different kind of
cluster and you know makes decisions
based on that by the way it seems to
make definitive decisions about you know
it doesn't like Flat Earth youtube I
think well YouTube in particular are
they're trying to do something about the
influx of conspiracy theory videos yeah
and the indoctrination aspect of them
that you know one of the things about
videos is like say if someone makes a
video and they make another very
particular subject and they speak
eloquently and articulately but they're
wrong about everything they're saying
they don't understand the science say if
they're talking about artificial
intelligence they're saying something
about things that you are an expert in
there they could without being checked
without someone like you in the room
that says that's not possible because of
x y&z without that they can just keep
talking so one of the things they do
whether it's about Flat Earth or whether
it's about dinosaurs being fake or
nuclear bombs being fake they can just
say these
things and they do it with an excellent
grasp of the English language right so
they say it there very compelling and
the way they speak they'll show you
pictures and images and if you are not
very educated and you understand that
this is nonsense and if you're
especially if you're not skeptical you
can get roped in you can get roped in
real easy and that's a problem and it's
a problem with some of the people that
work in these platforms their children
get indoctrinated and they get angry
their children get indoctrinated now
what's interesting is they get
indoctrinated also with right-wing
ideology and then people get mad that
they're indoctrinated but like ben
shapiro videos so they'll get pissed off
with that well but you're okay with
left-wing right why because you're
left-wing so then it becomes like okay
what is a problem what's really a
problem and what is just something
that's opposed to your personal ideology
and how who gets to make that
distinction and that is where the
arguments for the first amendment come
into play like should these social media
companies that have massive amounts of
power and influence should they be held
to the same standards as the First
Amendment and should these platforms be
treated as essentially a town hall like
where anyone can speak and there's a you
know a platform and there's a real
problem that there's not that many of
them this is a real problem
the real problem is like Twitter is the
place where people go to argue and talk
about shit and then Twitter maybe as a
competitor of Facebook but YouTube
certainly doesn't have a competitor
YouTube doesn't have any competitor I
mean there's Vimeo there's a few other
platforms but realistically it's YouTube
you know YouTube it's a giant giant
platform
what is this alphabet reports YouTube ad
revenue for the first time video service
generated 15 point 1 billion in 2019
holy shit
comparison I just looked up which ad
revenue was supposedly around 500 to 600
million wow that's a big difference
and what about facebook facebook is
stupendously valuable probably way
higher than that but this is the first
by the way Facebook I don't think pays
like YouTube paid for my McDonald's
burgers yesterday yeah Facebook's not
right Facebook is not in Twitter and
Instagram I think I'm paying you like
directly but there's a lot of calls to
break up Facebook I'm not I mean I'm on
Facebook but I'm not on it I don't use
it I just it's just connected to my
Instagram when I post something on
Instagram cause to Facebook as well I
don't I never go to face but I said Joe
Rogan's Facebook group that's a dumpster
fire of brilliant folks look at this
Facebook's revenues amounted to 21 point
eight billion dollars the fourth quarter
Jesus Christ just the fourth quarter the
majority of which were generated through
advertising the company announced over 7
million active advertisers on Facebook
during the third quarter of 2009
probably they'll also adds an Instagram
that thing with YouTube is just YouTube
not Google brought YouTube premium you
know and to be fair so the cash they
have they spend like Facebook AI
research groups some of the most
brilliant it's a huge group that's doing
general open-ended research Google
research Google brain google deepmind
are doing open and research like they're
not doing the ad stuff they're really
trying to build its that's the cool
thing about these companies having a lot
of cash is they can bring some of the
smartest people and let them work on
whatever in case it comes up with a cool
idea like autonomous vehicles with
lame-o yeah it's like let's see if we
can make this work let's throw some
money at it even if it doesn't make any
money in the next 5 10 20 years let's
make it work that's the positive sort of
side of having that kind of money yeah
that makes sense that there is as long
as they keep doing those kind of things
the real concern though is that they're
actually severely influencing the
democratic process so it's that it's
difficult I mean I certainly in Jack
Dorsey Jack Dorsey in terms of the CEOs
for interact where they think was one of
the good guys yes I agree yeah hey I
mean he's he wants a Wild West Twitter
well he doesn't know he he wants he
wants a good Twitter he's kind of
thinking about Wild West but he wants
his ideas have 202 Twitter one that's
filtered and one that's like capture
yeah anything goes yeah but I think he
that the point is nobody knows what's
what's the best kind of Twitter even
having to Twitter's like do you really
want the Wild West you want the First
Amendment to say free speech free speech
for everyone it's a difficult like the
gray area there you're just talking
about YouTube with certain people like
saying that I'm an expert in AI mm-hmm
or autonomous vehicles but I disagree
with a lot of people those people make
videos and maybe they don't have a PhD
god forbid
like are they not an expert either am i
right I'm I'm actually personally sick
of the academic sort of Cathedral
thinking that just because you have a
PhD and just you can be an expert like
I'm not an expert I'm an idiot do you
feel like that that line is getting more
blurred with the access to like all
those MIT courses that are online and
did the extreme amount of data that's
available to people that there are going
to be a lot of people that even though
they might not be classically trained
they have a massive amount of
information and have an open mind
yeah like the best you know I love like
I'd like I'd record a podcast right I do
like what first of all shout out to
Jamie for being incredible mastermind of
audio production right what sir yeah
yeah yeah but the reason I'm getting
giving a shout out because I suck so
badly I didn't have to do it I do it all
myself and but I learned that I do it
you know pretty good when you learn it
yourself from scratch just like what you
just saw with music and so on that lone
guitar mm-hmm a scratch you can learn
with the online materials they have now
yeah you could become really good and
the the journey you take is not the
traditional conformist journey through
that education process you take your own
journey and when you have millions of
people taking their own journey through
that process there's gonna be brilliant
people without a PhD
without ever having gone to college
right and they I mean it's difficult to
know what to do with that especially
about political questions like
economists there's these you know Paul
Krugman Nobel Prize winner economist
Harvard economist you know there's
supposed to be the holders of the truth
of the fundamentals of our economy and
one is there gonna be a crash what's
good for the economy is the left the
right what taxation system is good for
the economy but nobody really knows say
would like nutrition science psychology
economics anything that involves humans
it's a giant mess that expertise can
come from anywhere right like like
Rhonda Patrick I think she's pretty
criticized for she's kind of young yeah
and she's I would say you know she's
incredibly knowledgeable as one of the
world sort of experts but I think
academia probably doesn't acknowledge
her as an expert she's like young she
recently got a PhD I don't I'm not even
sure she you know like that there's that
kind of hierarchy that people do she's
been unjustly criticized by people who
don't even know her actual credentials
there was one guy who was criticizing
her and saying well she's not a clinical
researcher that's one of the things he
was backing his criticism on like you
know that's exactly what she is and
she's been doing that for years like you
don't know what the fuck you're talking
about
people get very touchy with her because
she's young and also because she's
incredibly brilliant like that lady she
brings stacks and stacks and notes when
she comes here she isn't even look at
him
she just rattles off all those studies
off the top of her head she isn't a
massive amount of data available and
she's very unbiased in her perceptions
of things like her she's all about what
do the results say what have the studies
proven what can we learn from those
studies and what do we have to take into
consideration when were we're assessing
this data she's brilliant she's she's
off the charts brilliant and people get
fucking jealous and I've seen it I've
seen it with weaker lazy Minds in
academia that criticize her that had at
least at one point in time had a larger
platform and I think her platform is
bigger now and I'm happy that I played a
part in that
I don't want to be a social justice
warrior but I've have seen women being
criticized more harshly yeah a lot of
domains of science I think you're right
yeah well you know and she's pretty too
there's a lot of things wrong there you
know for that too like good-looking
beautiful guy funny
yeah handsome no actually I get
criticized as this guy's an idiot
boring why can't he be more like Joe
Rogan okay what else you got there uh
what else denotes wise yeah my god I see
about martial arts okay I gotta talk to
you about well so I'm a huge fan of
wrestling a huge man a huge fan of the
Dagestan region yeah I have up getting a
lot of shit for it posted dead you know
Connor is gonna be cowboy before that
happened I'm also a huge fan of the
different styles of fighters in anime
and I'm surprised how much it actually
Connor gets even though he brought
besides besides sort of all the all the
mess that came with him he also brought
an interesting style
an interesting way of approaching fights
and it's just I was thinking and also
philosophizing about fighting which i
think is is amazing and it clashes with
the ideas of khabib to me like the
khabib nurmagomedov
it be so I posted that Connor would be
cowboy and why didn't know Dan was gonna
say was gonna say but tastes Maz Badal
and I thought he could beat Maz at all
and then the biggest fight ever 30,000
people in Moscow with against could be
for real for me every match would be the
greatest getting past moms with all and
not easy and khabib getting past 20
Ferguson not easy
yeah both of those fights and first of
all Mazda all is now gonna fight us man
which is very interesting is yeah that's
July very very interesting fight Guzman
is such a tank
he's fucking terrifying they hate each
other there's a lot of yeah certainly a
lot of animosity and lot of shit talking
but it's also the more that happens
the better it is for both of them in
terms of revenue generated it's a really
interesting fight now let me tell you
something when Maas Badal was at the
Conner cowboy fight when they put the
camera on him biggest pop from the crowd
the biggest at all the people AHS like
screaming people went nuts they saw him
they like he was you know wearing that
robe mm-hmm he's hilarious dude I mean
he's right look he's a slow starter in
terms of his career like being
recognized for the kind of fighter that
he is now and also being recognized
publicly as like a superstar but his
time has come he is here he is a fucking
star when that camera went on him and
the audience saw him that crowd went
bananas the entire t-mobile arena just
they went crazy yeah that'd be I mean
yeah well this might be an epic fight
but in terms of like the great I just
think the maybe it's me there Mathis
eyes notion like rocky for mm-hmm but
Connor vs. khabib in Moscow I can just
see it with like Putin and phaidor
sitting there I'll sit next to him do
you think they would do it in Moscow
yeah 30,000 people if Connor went to
Moscow man well good luck getting out if
you win good luck getting out of there
if you lose you know but I I so loved
their khabib is so loved in Russia but
they I think Russian people also love
MMA generally there's a like the the fan
the number of people that love fighting
in Russia is huge and I I know it seems
like on the internet khabib is like they
love khabib and Connor's hated but I
think ultimately they love her good what
is uh what's kind of call it a good heel
no no a good scrap I think he calls a
good fight yeah yeah I think I think I'd
be probably the biggest fight of all
time and I think actually Conor has a
shot like this what the I love khabib is
probably my favorite fighter I love that
style of fighting I'm like say ETF
brothers that Frankie Edgar said
mentioned to you about they're probably
the
boov isar say TF is the greatest
freestyle wrestler of all time just epic
his brother Adam has a match against was
a good soldier of God what's his name
Yoel Romero Romero at the 2000 Olympics
in the finals
y'all Romero looks like the mole like if
you were to imagine that Arif the most
terrifying opponent ever he's just like
shredded ripped and then Adams ietf
looks like I don't know dad bod very
skinny like nerd and he just
effortlessly like like destroys him
really yeah with a trip like let me see
that video
2000 Olympics Sydney finals Adam say T
of first rows named Adam say TSI SI i t
IE v vs yo romero
you l Romero's fighting Israel at a son
yeah in March I got this giant I can't
yeah not too much of a nerd but well he
definitely doesn't look as built as yo L
and yo L is a freak
yo L is probably the freakiest athlete I
think I've ever seen personally in terms
of his build like his small waist a hug
that guy picked him up I was at the end
of it there's a couple of moments where
he take away scores points
it was got him down here I guess he's up
by four to one and I think once again he
takes him down where I don't see just
started off in the beginning so we could
watch it there's a certain moment I mean
there it goes just start it right there
they're basically technicians yes for
sure when you look at the Duggars tiny
people I mean it's there's such emphasis
on technique yeah everything else but
also toughness it's like they don't they
have both things like and this is one of
the things that George st. Pierre told
me about training in Russia
excuse me training a Montreal what I'll
take down right there fog a spectacular
yeah oh my god it's amazing look at that
yes it got I think those are like inert
red boots you yeah
you gari depe true
covered his mouth what George st. Pierre
told me about training with Russian
nationals in Montreal he said they're so
technical in that you get a lot of
Americans that that are definitely
technical but they emphasize being hard
and tough and grueling training and
teens and grinding butting heads and
practice and he said whereas the Russian
nationals are far more committed to
drilling far more committed to the
technical aspects of exchanges and and
and and going through you know one one
technique after the other chaining these
techniques together understanding the
paths also the one of the least to me
one of the differences it could be
similar to yellow Romero's actually
philosophy but the philosophy of the
Dagestani of the Russian people the
Soviet Union is that recognition fame
money all that stuff doesn't matter and
even winning doesn't matter the purity
of the art is what matters at least with
a sigh ETF brothers is what they stood
for well that's that's mirrors what
khabib says about Conor that he doesn't
want to rematch with him yeah he's like
fuck that dude that's there I mean yeah
he was a little bit more of the modern
age I mean he has an Instagram and
Twitter and so on right he's he and
could be despite what he says also
there's a little bit of trash-talking
and you know he still plays the game a
little bit to change his face
yes that's my favorite send me location
whatever changes face
most people say especially when I'm on
here is is basically if I'm if could be
of did science that's that's my one of
my favorite quotes he's ever said though
I want to change his face change his
face is terrifying it's terrifying
because he can do it the cool thing is
with Conor that doesn't affect him the
the the confidence he has you know the
confidence that Connor has is just
incredible well that he wants to do it
again well I know for a fact that Connor
was going through a whole lot of shit
before that fight and did not have the
best training camp he did an amazing
training camp for this like he really
prepared head like he did for Connor or
excuse me cowboy the the cowboy fight
his coaches were saying he's never
looked better that he just was on fire
and so folk
and so so accurate and and precise and
training and that he was just on fire
and that just seemed to be that all of
the bullshit and the distractions and
all the things that sort of come with
being the kind of global superstar that
Connor is he managed to figure out a way
to get away from those and to just
really concentrate on his craft and and
pull everything to a championship level
again and goddammit he looked like it
against cowboy and to see the contrast
of those two cultures I mean it is a
rocky four type of situation that yeah
the track because you better believe
Conor McGregor will resume trash truck
who knows he might not you might not you
might not I mean he didn't in this fight
with cowboy at all he didn't do any
trash-talking I wonder if maybe he has
learned and I wonder if you know his
desire to beat khabib eclipses his
desire to get inside of his head and
play all the games it usually plays and
the promotional game set ultimately
probably won't be necessary but I think
you know the UFC is trying to push for
it right now they're pushing for right
now a rematch with could be but they're
ignoring Tony Ferguson in a lot of ways
in my eyes and I'm like that is the
boogeyman it's gonna be exciting it can
go it didn't go anywhere mr. boogie man
dude he doesn't get tired he doesn't get
tired he slices everybody up he isn't
like he's lost one fight in the you know
X amount of years and that was cuz he
had a broken arm the michael johnson
broke his arm so when you think about
what tony has been able to do to
world-class fighters what he did to
donald I mean he just smashed Donald's
face he smashed Anthony Pettis he
smashed he smashes everybody Tony
Ferguson is the goddamn boogeyman he
really is it doesn't get tired man and
he's get taken down and for sure I think
I'll do the his thing on him he's not
scared to be taken down that's the
difference between Tony and everyone
else if he gets taken down he might let
him take him down and just attack off of
his back and elbow the shit out of him
off of his back he's fucking dangerous
off his back he's hard to control he
scrambles very very well he also has fan
plastic submissions and he catches them
from everywhere I mean he catches
triangle choke stars chokes his jars
chokes are spectacular he's got one of
the best Darth chokes in the sport and
he's he's not scared
oof could be you get submitted my god
that would be crazy when he puts could
be asleep look yeah do you remember when
Dustin Poirier caught khabib in a
guillotine yeah yeah he did it caught
could be been a guillotine listen that
is not what you want to be with Tony
Ferguson you do not want to be in that
position with Tony Fergus and that's a
different kind of guillotine so did
Dustin Poirier is primarily a striker
clearly he has submission skills he's
submitted guys before he submitted max
Holloway Dustin Poirier is a bad
motherfucker no doubt about it
but when it comes to pure submission
skills Tony Ferguson has an edge and you
know he's a black belt in a tenth planet
black belt he's a master of submissions
and a great wrestler and a great
scrambler and the thing about him that's
so fucking terrifying is his cardio is
all the things right it's the striking
it's the the grappling it's the
submission abilities was not gonna get
tired he doesn't get tired and his mind
is impenetrable his mind's impenetrable
people are looking past that fight fine
no not me man I I don't understand it
but no was he's talking about you know
look at everybody he's fought beat the
fuck out of everybody that Edson Barboza
Hafele dos Anjos yeah yeah I mean he
smashes people and smashes people I mean
it's crazy
that I would I would say if I I would
say it's probably could be the toughest
fight I think it is as tough as fine and
I do
I think that's puts you know a lot of
people put could be like in the close to
the top 10 of all times
oh he's in the top 10 of all time a mile
away my eyes he's 28 no as a lightweight
cares about the record you look at the
people you've beat sometimes we idolize
people for the perfection of the record
too much dude the way he rag-dolled
hoffa dos anjos the way he steamrolled
like I mean he's beaten top-flight
competition and made them look like they
have no business being in there with
them but
I think if you beat Tony first I mean
that yeah that's um that's racism that
cements it yeah and people put him above
like I don't know I think Hana deserves
to be in that story in that in that top
like 15 top 10 perhaps her house
Josie Aldo yes like beating oh yeah I
don't know why people look past like
Josie Aldo or Eddie Alvarez oh yeah
though the Eddie Alvarez fight was
unbelievable like at least maybe I'm
just biased in the sense that I thought
there's no way that Conor beats Josie
Aldo and then there's no way
Conor beats Eddie ours moving up a
weight class like I always thought he's
gonna lose and it being surprised makes
me like up Conor's ability in my head
well he's phenomenal it's with Conor it
seems to be a matter of how focused he
is and who is he fighting and you know
where is he at in his life he's just his
life is so chaotic
he's always filled with so many
distractions I mean think about all the
crazy shit he's done the throwing the
throwing throwing the the dolly at the
bus and just all the nutty shit he's
done but it's nice that he seems to be
still hungry to fight even though he
probably has a lot of money in the bank
well he certainly was hungry to fight
cowboy I mean he looked fantastic in
that fight um and again you know he's
worth a couple hundred million dollars
it's so it's just the pure love of the
game that your love of the game and
that's kind of the ethic that's the
Warrior Ethos that could be becomes for
him and that it's cool to see that mind
if I nobody's ever said anything in
Russian actually probably in the Joe
Rogan podcast no I don't think so
if you ever need a translator okay I'm
your man no can I read a so say T I've
just a few lines in Russian okay I'm
sure so bro vice our site EF would read
boris pasternak which is a famous
Russian poet won a Nobel Prize before
every match and he kind of captures that
ethic so this is the poem I'll say it in
Russian okay and then in English please
okay drew Gilbert vamos l do I do - I
put Cepeda patch no para Gina at Bobby
oddities Omni does not recharge
he doesn't needi need okay yet post-its
ELISA no bridge jovem Shiva Metallica
Shiva Metallica the concern I know
there's a bunch of Russian people that
appreciate that
the translation a bit crappy is very
difficult to translate the Russian
language but it's the others step by
step we'll follow the living imprint of
your feet but you yourself must not
distinguish your victory from your
defeat and never for a single moment
betray your credo or pretend but be
alive only this matters alive and
burning to the end so this is the end of
a poem that represents the fact that
Fame that most of the poem says that
same recognition money none of that
matters the winning and losing none of
that matters what matters is the purity
of the art just giving yourself
completely over to the art so like
others will write your story others will
tell whether you did good or bad others
will inspire using your story but as the
artist so in the case of Pasternak he's
a poet writer and it did Road dr.
Zhivago the is the art you should only
think about the art and the purity of it
and the love of it and so when you look
at both I say I say T Evan the brothers
in the whole Dagestan region they
shunned Fame so I mean with the the
thing that kabhi was thrust into this
MMA world which is fundamentally I mean
so really it's a popular sport it's an
interesting it's an interesting thing I
mentioned I think the last time I was on
here the most terrifying human being you
know investors when they like buy a
penny stock seeing it's gonna blow up to
me the most terrifying human being in
the heavyweight division the the Russian
tank I mentioned last time the saddle I
of who now just continues destroying
everybody and it looks like he's already
won a gold medal one bunch of World
Championships he's a heavyweight the
heavyweights in that and UFC should be
scared
always it gonna fight MMA so the the
heart thing spell his name and let's get
a video so we can hear look at it it's
serious Jamie's got yeah
BAM it's think of I will never join MMA
no classic that's not that's the MMA
that's a that's part of the quote that's
and that's not that's that's not so yeah
I love saliva
that's closer to where he was chasing
he's still chasing the loves you so 2020
only Pixar how do you say the name how
did you say his first name
I just call him the Russian tank but
it's Abdul Abdul Abdul Rashid said Alya
okay but 23 24 years old and I think his
tension is and he says he has a lot of
close friends who are MMA fighters he
loves watching it he feels a lot for
them but it's not that what the very
thing that this poem gets at he doesn't
want he thinks that wrestling the pure
sport of wrestling is all about courage
skill like he describes in this way he
thinks
MMA also has to have this component of
ashitaka showmanship yeah and he is he
doesn't he doesn't like it but I think
that MMA needs that guy to write like a
heavyweight could be a heavyweight could
be every Conner needs a khabib like
every every showman needs a person who
says showmanship sucks every Ally needs
afraid to get Frazier right and I think
but this guy is terrifying I think he
would is he would do the same thing to
the khabib division again humble
technique is everything but just a
strength wise is also mom and he is he
really thinking about finding or no it's
hard to say it's hard to say because
again one of the greatest wrestlers of
all time really focused on 2020 Olympics
it's throwing punches here I think
what's going to happen is once likely
wins gold at this Olympics he's gonna
he's gonna you know this this Titanic
ship of a 23 24 year old ship is gonna
start thinking and turning hmm maybe
there is artistry maybe there is skill
and courage in and mixed martial arts
well there definitely is I mean he
doesn't have to do
trash-talking thing there's a lot of
people that are very stoic that fight
and they don't participate in any of
that stuff you know and then there's
people that thrive on that stuff I mean
it's it's really up to you the UFC
doesn't tell you have to talk trash you
know I mean results are what matters
right and it's not even trash that's
interesting I think stories are
interesting
yeah that's why that's why people like
like team sports are gonna follow what
you watch the Superbowl yes no I didn't
yeah went to Disneyland I wanted to talk
to you about something that was at
Disneyland what's that there's a new
Star Wars ride yeah this crazy Star Wars
ride and there's the you're it's a
20-minute ride I mean it's a crazy long
ride and a lot of it you're in like a
vehicle yes and the vehicle is all
programmed by computers the the
direction the vehicle the way the
vehicle means it's very complex there's
no tracks
so you're riding around on this vehicle
and the vehicle like that they're
shooting at you the vehicle has to back
up you go into this new door the vehicle
knows how to go around a corner and
what's that guy's name Darth Maul is
trying to cut through the wall spoiler
fucking this this new ride is amazing
it's crazy how intricate and complicated
it is and how far off the deep end
Disneyland went to create this thing I
mean it looks so crazy I mean you were
like how much money this cost this is it
right here so you're riding around in
these things and stormtroopers are
shooting at you and are there rails or
no no oh there's no rails man everything
is done by computer the computer tracks
out the environment and knows where each
one of these does go and by the way
there's several cars moving at the same
time so there's people in front of you
tharon cars they get shot at and look at
the fucking scale of this place so
that's one of them giant four
four-legged robot things that's in Star
Wars so you're moving underneath them
there's giant cannons that you have to
move through it's in cries of the
resistance
it's trackless yeah so this represent
eyes on the ground there's some yeah I
think those lines in the ground just the
wheels going the same way over and over
and over
sorry I just wanted to sort of
commentate but that day they're probably
not using the computer that's one so
yeah I think it's probably lidar based
it's I don't know what it's based on but
it's some the computer is coordinating
all of these different things at the
same time you go through this room and
you're seeing battles outside and you
feel it you see the walls get hit like
that like it's fucking crazy man it's
it's amazing
yeah I mean it's a right the line is
bonkers
so the robotics has close to this like
the AI aspect of this is probably
minimal look at that look at that like
you're in this thing you move through
this room and in the background you're
watching these starships shooting at
each other in the following time
perfectly yeah it's crazy man yes it
really could make this happen I mean
these are people that are willing to
probably invest hundreds of millions and
yeah like in this so guaranteed so I
think there's some like there's very
minimal AI in this because AI creates
uncertainty uncertainty is very
undesirable in situations like this yes
yeah I don't think there's any a I in it
but there's some for sure there's some
sort of automation some computer
automation yeah but it's basic software
it's like it's software I call this
basic don't you dare don't you dare Lex
it's Star Wars it's not even real Wow
how are you there's reusable rockets
being launched on a monthly basis and
we're gonna call it as Mars for real
that's real right that's more
interesting for sure definitely but this
is dope Mars while you know I'll be here
playing fucking Disneyland rides and
then I'll go home and sleep in a bed and
breathe air
fuck you'll be out there on Mars in the
history books with no way I remember you
I don't know books don't matter once
you're dead yeah I mean it's nice that
we have access to the history books and
I praise the historians for sure but
it's not I'm not interested in making
history yeah I don't know actually what
I said that because I don't care about
the history books well I do the just the
exciting it's one of the only frontiers
that we can actually be exploring like
we've explored well the depths of the
ocean weapon exactly right
yeah but the
outer space that's like man that's
that's like the most exciting one for
engineering and science that we can
explore in the mind like engine like we
don't know shit about the mind and
explain that with the neuroscience with
AI mm-hmm just all of that the cot the
cautious the all the other thing you
talked about with Boston on the
simulation yeah that's guidance um I
wanted to talk to you about that too
because you brought up bostrm what do
you bastard I'm relies on I mean he was
relying on theories in terms of like
mathematical theories of probability to
to say that he thinks it's more likely
that we're in a simulation yes he has a
the thing he's articulated I don't think
he's come up with the idea of the
simulation he just kind of really
thought about it deeply he came up with
a simulation argument which is these
three categories he described to you
possible outcomes I think the first one
is we destroy ourselves before we ever
create a simulation the second one is
that we would lose interest in creating
a simulation at some point and the third
one is we're living in the simulation
yeah what do you where do you lean I
think - I think there's going to the
three paths that he highlighted it makes
it sound like it's so clear that it's
just three but I think there's gonna be
a huge amount of possibilities of the
kinds of simulation like to me I keep
asking you know to ask
Elon Musk he's about the simulation wait
he said what's on the other side what's
outside the simulation yeah I think I
asked what would you ask an AGI system
he said what's outside the simulation is
the question he believes in it hi or at
least he entertains it as a troll the
Elon Musk embodies like the best of the
Twitter internet troll I mean and a
brilliant engineer and designer in one
it's like yeah it's like a quantum state
that you can't quite figure out like
what what's the coupling because I don't
know if he's trolling but I'm the same
way I love asking people out the
simulation even though I get a little
bit of hate from the scientific
community but it pushes you get hate
from the science
your community about simulation because
it's it's ridiculous notion if you think
of it's like literally that because it's
not a testable thing we don't know how
to just like why are you talking about
this why do you sit down with Elon Musk
and talk about the simulation we when
you're sitting with a world expert in
particular aspects of rockets or
robotics like I'm an expert what I came
without you said that I'm not expert
anything but I know but a few things
about Thomas vehicles why don't you talk
to him about that right why don't we
talk about simulation well the thing is
the simulation pushes you outside of the
muck the messiness of everyday details
of science and makes you ask big
questions about like the nature of our
reality hmm and I I like to think of it
as like what how would we build a
simulation like what would be a
compelling enough virtual reality game
that you want to stay there for all your
your whole life that's a first step
there that's useful to think about like
what is our reality
what what aspects of the are most
interesting for us humans to be able to
perceive with our limited perception
cognitive abilities interpret and
interact with and then a bigger question
then is like how do you build a larger
scale simulation that would be able to
create that virtual reality game which i
think is a possible future
we're already creating virtual worlds
for ourselves on Twitter and social
networks and so on
I really believe that virtual reality
will enter will spend more and more of
our lives in the next 50 a hundred years
in virtual worlds and the simulation
hypothesis assimilation discussion as
part of that I think I think there's the
question of what's outside simulation is
really interesting that's the other way
of because like what created us what
started the whole thing it's the modern
version of asking what the what is God
what does God look like what you know
it's it's asking what does the
programmer look like I think that's a
fascinating question but arguing that
we're already living this situation I
think you've got stuck on that little
point mm-hmm I think it's not that
there's a bit of a language barrier too
there's like there's a technical yeah I
think next legit it's funny it's funny
nick is a legit philosopher so he's been
fighting battles in the philosophy game
like you've asked them does somebody
disagree with him yeah on these
hypotheses and there's a little bunch of
philosophers disagree with him but
including Sean Carroll on the
philosophical level and a lot of the
arguments are in philosophy and then I'm
sort of technical and they are about
language and about terms and so on
but I think yeah it's very possible that
we we live in a live in a simulation I
think one of the this constructs of so
physics theoretical physics with many
worlds interpretation of quantum
mechanics as Sean's talk to you about
reveals some interesting sort of
fundamental building blocks of our
reality there's something I don't think
people have talked to you about which is
like the coolest thing to me the most
amazing thing that nobody can explain
yeah things called cellular automata and
there's a guy mathematician named John
Conway who came up in the 70s with a
thing called game of life and cellular
automata are these two dimensional or
one dimensional but game of life is two
dimensional grid where every single
little cell is really dumb and it
behaves based on the cells next to it
and it it's born when there's a fuse
when there's like a certain number like
three cells alive next to it and it dies
otherwise so it's like a simple rule for
birth and death and all it knows it's
it's nearby surrounding in its own life
and if you take that system with a
really dumb rule and expanded in size
arbitrary complexity emerges you can
have touring machines so you can
simulate perfect computers with that
system and it can grow and all these
behaviors grow like if you watch if
people Google like a game of life and
you can watch this extremely dumb simple
system just grow arbitrary complexities
and what you start to realize that from
such incredibly simple building blocks
that don't know anything about the
around them you can build our entire
universe you can build the kind of
complexity as we see it less so like we
think that God is like designing every
little aspect or whatever of our world
or a simulation hypothesis the
simulation is designed by hand like I'm
gonna craft these things what you
realize is all you can all you need to
do is just set some initial conditions
set some really basic rules and allow
the system to grow as long as it can
grow arbitrarily just crazy stuff
amazing stuff can happen from like from
simplicity complexity can emerge and
that for like if you study this a little
bit closer just like watch it people can
watch that a game of life on YouTube and
think about what it's showing like for
ten minutes it will blow your mind the
fact that from simplicity arbitrary
complexity beauty can emerge is like
incredible so for the simulation the
creator of the simulation is probably
some 13 year old nerd living in like in
his mom's basement
it's probably just set some rules in
this video game and press play and then
arbitrary complexity can emerge it can
have a Joe Rogan it can have an Elon
Musk all the technologies that we've
developed and probably millions of other
alien species that are living throughout
our universe
so the yeah that to me the cellular
automata reveals that the simulation is
much easier to create than we might
think
and but there's a lot of variability and
the kinds of simulations will create
like I think the simulation hypothesis
things like you know there's like one
but I think there's were going to be a
lot of varieties there's that there's
that there's a lot of possible different
rule sets there's about a lot of
different physical mediums in which
these simulation could be created it can
be a completely virtual world the role
of consciousness whether you make most
people conscious or not whether most of
them are philosophical zombies they're
just like non player characters and it's
just you or you have or is your mind
simulated like
the role of suffering so consciousness
brings with it this idea of of basically
you know subjective experience if the
subjective experience comes the idea of
pain and fear and so on the thing again
my Russian romanticization of it but I
think fear of death is essential
scarcity is essential for community for
life you know and that that's a nice
feature of this little simulation we got
going on that there could be a lot of
different alternatives I think that
could be less individualistic less less
consciousness can be present in
different kinds of forms so I see
there's a lot more options than those
three that he highlights and we can
destroy ourselves in a lot of
interesting ways the entire
civilizations from AI to nuclear weapons
to biological to all kinds of weapons so
it's almost like whether it's a
simulation or not is almost irrelevant
the complexity of the existence and all
of the various pushes and pulls that
keep everything together they're they're
almost operating like some grand plan
whether they like it or not whether
whether or not a grand plan exists all
these different things are happening and
everything is moving in a very specific
direction right it's moving towards
further complexity like I was having a
conversation with a friend of mine last
night where we were talking about phones
and we were like you know like when are
they are ever gonna look at a phone and
say I think we're good we don't have to
the camera works great signals great and
call people you can text people let's
just stop innovating right here and
we're both laughing like it's never
gonna happen but even though we admit
like if you have an iPhone 11 or a pixel
4 is that we have yeah it works they
work great but you don't really need
anything better like in terms of the way
our culture works you get so much done
on these things you can Bank on them is
okay if I'm drinking all your water's by
the way yeah we have a lot of water yeah
please
that's very polite of you this the disk
the existence itself whether or not
there's a design to it it seems to
operate in a matter that would indicate
there's a design the design doesn't have
to be real doesn't have to be a
simulation it doesn't have to be a grand
plan but it moves in this the same way
as if it's a grand plan it's weird it's
hard to put into words but there's a
different force and a momentum like the
evolutionary process the fact that life
was created the fact that there was a
kind of progress and also like just like
with the Native Americans the the fact
that suffering seems to be a constant
story that was weaving in mmm-hmm like
we would constantly progress but we
seems to be like creating the other and
torturing that there seems to be
constant suffering and war and so on
through this growth process and that
seems to be the death is a huge part of
that and and conflict conflict even
social conflict like we were talking
about social justice warriors and and
that type of thing I think they almost
have to exist it's almost like the world
creates a space for them and people find
a way to fill that space yeah the
conflict by the way also I don't know if
you ever know where you're kind of even
though you were thrust into politics you
know where of politics but there is the
Iowa caucus going on today the first
vote for the Democrats yeah Bernie's
leading in the polls
which is interesting but that's the
that's the that's the fun little we got
Americans have their own little conflict
going on here oh there's always going to
be conflict with all groups of people
with everything I mean there's conflict
in the comedy community I'm sure there's
conflict in the AI and autonomous
vehicle community there's this conflict
I mean and and those things are critical
you know you learn from conflict if
everything was just simple and easy and
there was no resistance whatsoever
nothing would get done and also your own
personal systems would never get tested
I feel like every adversity of the
experience is really a gift because on
the other end of that adversity there's
an opportunity for massive growth what
was that thinking
Grow Rich quote that Lovato Lovato said
the other day every adversity carries
the seed of an equivalent advantage I
mean yeah just that yes yeah just a
beautiful way to see it that that's a
beautiful quote how to write it down I
bought that book too I'm gonna get to
that once I'm I'm worn out on Native
Americans I got about seven other Native
American books I've been so I like I
mentioned doing the start up right it
says since August and it's been it's
been a bit of a torture like the
self-doubt it's pretty hardcore because
I know cuz I've been failing that stop
like so I'm trying to build it spending
most of my day programming and you're
trying to build a her for a she whatever
it is that she or her was it hurt her
but no there's on that path there's
particular thing because you want to
create a business you wanted me right
you know you have to create tools that
people would you enjoy using on the path
it's a long journey to create a
companion that can form a deep
friendship
it seems so weird it's it seems
everything seems weird until your life
becomes better because of it mmm like
flying cars seem weird oh yeah to me
still in fact uber and Hind I just
partnered they're still pushing this
idea of flying cars electric veto I just
feel like people are gonna slam into
each other yeah unless they are
autonomous and they have like magnets
so they repel you know like they can't
hit each other they get close they sure
and what happens when they hit like to
me the like what does an accident look
like it fall on your head yeah you're
hanging out in your house trying to
watch you know black mirror or also
hanging currently most accidents people
can walk away from the cars today are
incredible right and I don't know how
you can walk away from a dryer crash
good question
a very good question it's probably won't
yeah fuck that's scary yeah but any
technology kind of seems awkward a weird
you can you can be terrified of it or
you can you know you can think it's
weird until it until it takes over I
mean none of us know what that would
look like to have
a closer connection with AI systems I
don't know one of the things in this
book that I'm in the middle of with I'm
actually towards the end of this black
health book as it details the invention
of the automobile and the implementation
of it so recent world change that was
the other surprising thing about this
book is it's so recent Razik really
really recent yeah so during this time
where Black Elk was a young boy sees
Custer get killed
takes his first scalp you know remembers
the sound of the man gritting his teeth
as he's cutting his hair off like
cutting his scalp off and then later on
in his life as he's an older man the the
world goes from very few automobiles to
most people have an automobile during
his lifetime most travel is by
automobile what does he what does he say
about this world this this new world is
know let's read the book because the
mean he doesn't even know about this
world he knows about the world of 1930s
I believe he died in the late 30s just
it's scary to be born not scary but I
don't know what it would feel like to be
born in this natural world to see the
kind of suffering and the US military
and then see the technology of the
Industrial Revolution kind of propagate
and be faced with that I don't know what
that would feel like I don't know which
world is better well the world
represents progress is uh right right
what is progress yeah what is prior I
mean it's it progress seems to be
inevitable complexity inevitable
never-ending complexity and then there's
this push towards that and I've always
wondered if I mean Elon has the saying
that human beings are the biological
bootloader for AI and I've always
thought that if you paid attention to
the human beings desire for materialism
like materialism seems to be like a
constant throughout cultures people want
things and when they have things they
want better things they want newer
things
well that generates a consistent level
of innovation inside that that
civilization that culture
people are gonna make better stuff
because people going to want better
stuff so they're gonna improve upon
things well if you just scale that and
you keep going and proving and proving
what do you get to you will you get to
something like artificial intelligence
you get to something like you know some
sort of some some sort of an event some
sort of a thing where the world changes
and I think technology will help us ride
that wave I am optimist in that sense
we've talked about much but I'm an
optimist on your link I think there'll
be a few exciting developments there so
neural and brain computer interfaces I
think it's really exciting possibility
there that Nick Boston was - also
skeptical about I'm more positive about
increasing the bandwidth of our brain
being able to communicate with the
Internet
with the information it doesn't
necessarily need to be through brain
computer interfaces but increasing that
bandwidth to expand our ability of our
mind to reason not not the expandability
reason sorry - take the mechanism of our
minds ability to reason and expand it
with access to a lot of information
mm-hmm and increase that bandwidth to be
able to reason with facts just like we
can look up stuff on Wikipedia now
increasing the speed at which we can do
that can I think fundamentally transform
our ability to think do you think that
that's ever going to be a wireless
option cuz right now they have to drill
holes in your head right right yeah I
think I think this could be us there
could be other interfaces I think yeah I
think so but also like I said we're
technology holes in your head sounds
terrifying right now but it could be
normal
look ear piercing yeah well yeah hear
piercings yeah I think but standard like
hey did you get suited for neuro-link
yet yeah Billy's only 13 he's not ready
for neuro-link we're gonna wait until
he's 16 he's like dad all my friends
have it yeah come on dad yeah I want to
get fitted and just like surgery
you take knee surgeries and all surge
except brain surgery and you take that
for granted
yeah for you you're like okay with it
but on the brain it's yeah it's scary
sketchy
can i cuz I know you probably gotta go
yeah we got last guy can I close it out
with a poem what
Dewar's I'm that guy okay because I've
been doing the startup have been
sufferings I'm reading a lot of Bukowski
Oh
Bukowski poems you get drunk when you
read them of course some whiskey roll
the dice vodka vodka is for friends and
family oh when you buy yourself to
whiskey no I don't need a man that's not
drink by himself oh well this man
doesn't but it's more like relaxed
thinking drink is whiskey vodka is we're
going crazy okay we're going going dark
we're gonna raid and pillage roll the
dice or go all the way by Charles
Bukowski if you're going to try go all
the way otherwise don't even start if
you're going to try go all the way this
could mean losing girlfriends wives
relatives jobs and maybe your mind go
all the way it could mean not eating for
three or four days it could mean
freezing and a park bench
it can mean jail it can mean division
mockery isolation isolation is the gift
all the others are a test of your
endurance how much you really want to do
it and you'll do it despite rejection
and the worst odds and it'll be better
than anything you can imagine if you're
going to try go all the way there's no
other feeling like that you'll be alone
with the gods and the nights will flame
with fire do it do it all the way all
the way you will ride life straight to
perfect laughter it's the only good
fight there is what's this thing fake it
fake it for Instagram alright fake it
for Instagram people on Instagram that
watch it well no fake fake look up fake
that was awesome
appreciate your brother thank you very
much for coming in here it's always
pleasure we got to do it more often at
10 more years yes 10 more years bye
everybody
[Music]